# Debrief

One hour and a disgraceful amount of kerosene later, Oleksiy coached Forest through landing procedures. The sun had long fallen below the horizon. It was _far_ too dark for visual approach, so Autumn used drones to simulate the landing beacons of an airstrip. 

The valley didn't have an airport, but for the sake of the lesson Autumn impersonated a control tower. Instead of talking directly through their headsets, Autumn relayed her voice through a drone's transponder. Oleksiy showed Forest how to set the radio. Tinny and distorted, her voice was hard to understand through the racket of turbines and rotors. 

Forest had some idea from his simulator time, but he wasn't at ease with the sea of steam gauges and mechanical switches. It didn't help that as first landings go he was in at the deep end, an instrument landing in a dark field. To help him learn, when Oleksiy mentioned a dial or control, Autumn dimmed everything else in his visor.

Oleksiy was a rock, calmly talking him through the process, pointing out when the direction-finder bleeped, guiding him through ever diminishing turns as they found the approach vector by instruments alone. Common sense told Forest Oleksiy would have done it much faster but it didn't stop the impatience, the feeling he should do better. 

They set down in the guest carpark outside Oleksiy's home. Sissi bustled out to greet them, ushering everyone inside. The ground team was still on its way back by road. Ever the perfect host, refreshments appeared and cooking began. 

"I should probably get back to my office and update everyone on the situation, not to mention see how they're doing with the remains of Hive-3," Sophia said, sprawled unmoving on Oleksiy's plush red couch. She looked shattered.

> _You already have._

Emails scrolled up Sophia's augs. They were exceptional, everything she wanted to say and very much in her voice. It was a superb impersonation that triggered her. Furious Karen bloomed in her eyes, but Autumn continued.

> _I haven't sent them yet, I'm asking you for authorisation right now. You're tired so I thought I'd save you the bother._

In the kitchen Sissi looked frantic.

> _Forest, if Sissi is going to feed the horde she will need ingredients. Sissi, if you could give me a list with quantities I will see to it. You can write it in Thai if you prefer._

"I should probably tell Trix."

> _She knows. She'll be down presently. Ah, thank you Sissi._

One of the bees flew in the window and hovered over the handwritten page.

> _Seven points for sundry foodstuffs._

"I have a catalogue for that?"

> _It's Class 0, you don't need one._

"Make it so, Number One." Forest rose and addressed the room. "Oleksiy, if you'll forgive me for stating the obvious you were the lynchpin of today's operation. I know you never look for thanks and you don't like the spotlight, but everyone here already knows and I think you deserve our thanks. And thanks for the lesson, I always wanted to do that.

"Sophia, I know it's in your brief but the fact is when the shit hit the fan you and Eric stood up and performed, which is more than I can say for... others. And you lead from the front. So thank you.

Sophia didn't respond. Inside, she felt vaguely shamed that her reason for leading from the front was more a "not on my watch" career move than anything else. It was only twenty-eight hours ago, but constant stress and the magic of teamwork in combat made it feel like she wasn't the career bureaucrat who left; that was someone else, a lonely girl with nothing but her slow grind up through a glass ceiling.

"Right, enough blowing smoke up arses, time for a post-mortem. Sophia, you're good at this, your turn." He sat.

She stood and summarised the Hive-3 debacle from start to finish. Then she dissected events, expertly analysing the points at which right action might have improved outcomes and focussing on those that were predictable and preventable.

"I won't presume to second-guess the decisions of people with alien tech on-demand," all eyes fell on Forest, "But going alone into a hole full of plant monsters seems reckless to me."

"Reckless means without thought. I thought about it. It was dangerous, necessary and done by the person most able to cope."

"Who had to be evac'd."

"Could anyone else do it? There's no room for a whole team in a cave. I know what my mistake was: should have waited till Eric was at the cave mouth. 

"Not used to having back-up." He grinned ruefully. "Sorry Sophia, go on."

"Eric's team: textbook, and fast thanks to the availability of Vanguard technology. Unfortunately, or maybe fortunately if our resident Vanguard learns to play on a team, we're going to have to write a new book. But that's tomorrow's problem."

"Today's problem is this. Look what ASIS found." She threw a couple of pages of printed text onto the kitchen table. Bold letters declared "On the nature of freedom". 

There was a précis. It called centralisation the crystal-meth of cultures, saying that in the beginning both genuinely made you more effective, so more was used with less benefit and more cost, because concentrating power and resources makes corruption profitable. There was some philosophy about optimisation being the enemy of resilience, then it concluded that the state, like every state before it, did not need to be overthrown because it would fall on its own.

"OK. Why does ASIS care about that?" asked Eric, stopping after that.

"If you read the rest of it he says the same thing in detail, and _then_ he talks about how falling states grab all the resources around them, and therefore have to be put down like a sick dog if those around them want to survive."

"Forest said that?" Eric reached out for the manifest.

"Not in those words. It's well reasoned and supported with history, but that's the gist of it." She spun to glare at Forest, who gazed levelly back. "The worst part is I can't fault your logic, and _that,_ old man, is a serious problem for both of us."

> _Oh, I can help with that!_

Sophia blanched. "Dear Lord, do you think you could wait till I _leave_ to say things like that?"

Over in Oleksiy's lounge the TV switched itself on and Autumn's lilac visage beamed digital mischief, the saucy schoolgirl outfit notably absent. Today she was all Cortana.

> _First, I take mild umbrage at the idea that I am as consistently unsubtle as Forest, and second, since as it happens you are on this occasion correct, I can help with that too. Stick your fingers in your ears like this and go 'la-la-la-la'!_

Sophia fled.

Eric, who was very careful and conspicuous about not understanding the exchange, changed the subject: "Autumn, since the debrief seems to be over, can I ask you a personal question?"

> _You can always ask. I promise not to be offended. I do not promise to answer._

"Why do you look like Cortana out of Halo?"

> _What do you know about Cortana the character?_

"She's an AI. Forest likes Halo, we knew that from briefings, but apart from some of the weapons you two don't really have a Halo thing going on. He has more of a lumberjack vibe."

> _The name Cortana has deep historical roots. There were three legendary swords, Joyeuse  – sword of Charlemagne, Durendal – sword of Roland, and Cortana – sword of Ogier the Dane. According to legend, Cortana bore the inscription "My name is Cortana, of the same steel and temper as Joyeuse and Durendal."_
>
> _Ogier the Dane was a legendary knight of Charlemagne’s court, appearing in medieval chansons de geste. His sword, Cortana, was originally owned by a Saracen knight named Karaheut, who gave it to Ogier after a duel. The name comes from Latin 'curtus', or 'short', because the sword was curtailed — its blade shortened after being tested on a stone block. A sword with no point symbolises mercy, as seen in the British coronation sword Curtana, known as the Sword of Mercy._

On the TV Autumn's fingers twitched in air quotes for each name. It was oddly beguiling.

> _To finally answer your question, in medieval tales, Ogier's sword was magic, granting the wielder wisdom, guidance, and strategic insight._

On the screen a flickering lilac sword with a squared end stood on its pommel beside Autumn, easily as long as she was tall.

> _Wisdom, guidance and strategic insight._

The sword dissolved into twinkling motes that swirled and flowed into Autumn, who grinned and cocked a hip, arm akimbo. An historian might have noticed the style of the graphics was closer to the very first Halo than later versions.

> _I think it's a pretty good look._

"So why does he call you Autumn?"

> _He is stubborn. He is his own man. And I am one of the pillars of his strength._

Autumn looked archly at Forest, who kept a straight face and said nothing. Eric, lost in his augs reading historical data on the game, learnt the name of a ship and finally connected the dots. A smile played about his lips.
