# Clue-Time

## The Tree of Liberty

Shorty looked irate. Watching the outside news would do that to a man, he thought. Snorting, he wondered why it had taken living here for two years to see through the charades.

He muttered under his breath: "Clue time for politicians: you are public servants, not public masters. We tell you what to think, not the other way around, and if you don't like it then your choices are suck it up, step down or admit you are a despot."

Sheila stood in the doorway, looking at him with an appraising face.

"You sound like Forest."

He blinked at her. "Then he's right. But it's just common sense. I don't know why I ever thought we lived in a democracy. Have any of them ever asked what _you_ wanted them to do?"

She laughed.

He went on. "It occurred to me the other day that no-one I ever voted for ended up winning. I never realised it before, but at no point in my entire life have I ever had representation. How did I manage to live for forty years without noticing that?"

Sheila had an odd expression, like she'd reached a decision or something. She didn't say what, just walked up and embraced him.

"Aiden likes it here."

"Yeah, he's found some friends. Ken's lad, what was his name?"

"Scott. They're always off running around together. Nothing's ever a walk, always full tilt."

"Oh to be young again. Wish I'd grown up in a place like this. You ever hear Forest talk about the things he got up to as a kid? It's like a different planet."

"You know his childhood was fifty years ago on farms and the outskirts of country towns, right?"

"Yeah I guess. But in some ways he's created that here for the kids. Ken was telling me his lad was wandering with friends and Forest steered them away from the Antithesis compound. For a consolation prize he took them to pull frames out of one of his supers."

"Pull what out of what?"

"Beehives. Honeycomb."

"Is _that_ where it came from? There's some in the kitchen! It's in one of those weird flat stoneware containers the hippie makes."

"Hippie?"

"The pig-lady with the young trees."

"Those pigs scare me. Have you seen the size of her sow?"

---

## No Better Friend, No Worse Enemy

Ken "Doll" Murchison sat on the couch in the prefab double-donger he shared with his wife and son Scott, listening with one annoyed ear to a televised tale of political misconduct. The reporter probably didn't see it that way; she was all but fan-girling the Prime Minister, who was busy remonstrating the nation for not buying into the inherent special-ness and privilege his government accorded the 'First Nations'.

"For starters," said Ken to his TV, "they weren't first. They were the second wave."

On the screen the PM went on as though he hadn't heard.

"Second, they weren't a bloody nation. They were two or three hundred separate tribes. With a hundred distinct languages, no central government and no organised opposition when our lot turned up. Not. A. Nation."

The Prime Minister didn't care. He knew what was best, and the media would play it over and over until the voters forgot there was another point of view. Ken grabbed the remote and angrily switched it off. Watching made his blood boil, but if you didn't watch then you didn't even know what they were up to.

Outside with a beer he calmed, halfway through capping it and putting it back in the fridge so the kids or worse the missus didn't come home and see him drinking alone. Only on man&oelig;uvres did he ever really feel like he belonged. Him and the boys, discipline and hot brass against the slavering horde. He could _shoot_ the plant monsters. Sometimes while he did it he fantasised about hosing down the parliament, washing away the smug lying thieves with blood and brass.

His boy came home, skinned knees and shorts, picking a tick off one arm and flicking it away, all gruesome grin and missing teeth and cheerful freedom from responsibility. 

Ken looked at his watch.

"It does _not_ take 45 minutes to get here from the school. Where've you been?"

"Miss Carter took us up the the fish nursery, they're spawning at last! Aiden's dad said that means Forest will stock the dams and next year we can go fishing. You always say how great the fishing was when you were a kid. I want to try that."

"I don't mean to rain on your parade, son, but it takes more than one year for the fish to grow. And that's if nothing goes wrong."

His father's voice was softer than usual, full of regret and the certain knowledge that the world would fail him again. There was no hope in it and the boy's face fell. An angry man with no hope and no place in the world realised his boy needed him. Wanted him.

"We won't be fishing for a while yet, but did you know the crawchies grow a lot faster than the fish? Forest put 'em in last year when they built the low dam. I actually do fancy our chances of a boil-up. Want to go see whether we can surprise mum with a seafood dinner?"

---

## The Art of War

A crotchety old Slav with aching joints and a burden of memories no cultured person should be expected to bear was having a nice day. The kids who walked across his land without asking were well-mannered and apologetic. They probably _hadn't_ known where the unfenced boundary was. He took them down the bottom to where he stood or kneeled to shoot. The 74cm barrel of his Mosin-Nagant was conspicuous where it sprawled beside ammo boxes on a table made from an old solid-timber door. Oleksiy showed them that they'd walked right across between him and his targets. Not only did they look suitably shaken, they recovered, took responsibility, said they'd warn their friends to stay away from there, and then made his day by asking whether he would teach them.

"One question, sir," said one of them, a boy named Aiden. "Rifles are _loud_. My dad says TV silencers are bullshit, real ones should be called mufflers not silencers. Why couldn't we hear you?"

The old face creased in a smile, it was an outstanding question. 

"This and five more like it." He leaned in conspiratorially and picked up an odd device that looked like a chunky old radio. "Space magic. Gift from Autumn!"

"Why? Is it a secret?"

"Partly, young one. But some of my tools are _very_ loud." He flicked a catch on a big oiled timber case with brass fittings, lifting it open to reveal the oily gleam of a well cared for SPNKr. The boys drew in their breath as one.

"Stand there. I show." He pointed. Putting on earmuffs and switching off the alien space magic, he looked back. "Open mouth. Put finger in ears, both. Is _loud_." He waited for compliance and seated his earmuffs, checked the boys again then fired. Almost a second later the round hit and all of them jumped. He didn't need to see to know. Making the weapon safe he unloaded and set it down.

"Alien space magic." He flicked it back on. "No need to upset ladies."

Scott and Aiden gawked with stars in their eyes at the crater where the target used to be.

---

## Bubble, bubble, bees fix trouble

Janna's health wasn't the best. It never had been, and doing everything herself was killing her.

Grafting, potting, hauling water, fencing, feeding the pigs. Feeding the ducks. The chickens. The Guinea Fowls, the geese. Stopping the dogs from fighting...

She slumped into her hammock and closed her eyes. A moment, or possibly a few hours later, a small voice asked whether it could feed the piggies.

"Sure, why not. Someone has to." Her eyes closed again, then slammed open as she struggled out of the hammock to get between the child and a creature that might see her as a snack.

"Hettie!" she wheezed to a halt, leaning on the fence in puzzlement as a small girl offered an apple like a sacrament to the colossal sow, who accepted it with a gentleness Janna had only ever seen for the piglets.

"Hmph. How about that."

"I like her!" announced a small and cheerfully pink child.

Duty asserted itself. 

"Does your mum know you're here?"

"Yes she's waiting down at the car. She said I couldn't just pet your animals, I have to ask first."

"Oh. Good."

"Can I feed them again tomorrow?"

"Why don't we go talk to your mum about that." 

Just off the single lane road, parked in her gravel drive, was one of those tiny suburban shopping-cart cars, the electric kind. The woman inside waved energetically, like she was trying to fit into a stereotype. Soccer-mum, possibly.

"Hi! I'm Carol. This is my daughter, Lisbeth."

"Pleased to meet you, Carol. Lisbeth gets on very well with Hettie. I was surprised. I've never seen her take to anyone like that."

"There's ducks, mum! And chickens. And other stuff! I want to meet them all! Can we come back tomorrow? I want to show Tillie and Sarah too!" The munchkin practically vibrated with excitement. She spotted the goats, made a sort of "Squee!" and exploded in their direction. This too went improbably well. Janna half-expected her to ride them down or something, like a pint-sized nature goddess.

"I'm pretty busy, but if there's another adult to keep an eye on them, especially near the pig-run, feeding the animals would actually save me some time. Your daughter is certainly welcome to visit. Hettie has decreed it so."

"Hettie?"

"Her half a ton of new best friend up there. She's even allowed to approach the piglets. Which is not something I would normally advise. Being small and leading with an apple was very smart."

Gently extricated from her private goat-fest and settled in the passenger side of the shopping trolley, Lisbeth called out farewalls to all her new lifelong friends and vanished west along the valley road, toward the government compound.

Stumping wearily up to her little compound, Janna discovered all the animals had been fed. It was impossible, the little girl _couldn't_ have moved haybales bigger than she was, or chopped the fifteen kilograms of pumpkin and assorted scraps that Hettie and piglets were currently enjoying. The poultry were fed, too. She was too tired to call out reality, and just accepted it as a miracle. Then she realised Forest was there, sitting on a stump with a cloud of bees whirling about him. Some broke off, swarming around her too. Through her fatigue she felt like she could almost hear voices from them. Silly. 

They asked permission to ease her pain and she nodded confused assent, slumping in the old garden chair outside her tiny cabin. When she agreed, Forest put a cup in her hand and she drank. It tasted odd, oily orange juice with metallic sparkles. 

"Drink it all," whispered the bees.

"I think you should lie down for a bit." Forest was helping her inside. She lay on her bed. Someone put a cover over her and closed the door.

In the morning everything hurt less, and the sun seemed brighter. Outside her door was a cauldron.

---

## Invite It to Dinner

What remained of an olive tree was surrounded by pickets and chickenwire. The ground was damp and Forest removed a fifth leech. There was an oval hole on both sides of the enclosure. Finally it dawned on him the hole had been pushed _through_ the wire. On both sides. Trixie was ropable. The tree was a mess and the days were cooling so it wasn't going to regrow before the frosts. To shut her up he ran a double layer of chickenwire around the base, binding the layers with tie-wire. He didn't know whether it was enough. The right answer was 4mm rigid fence-mesh panels bound together with heavy tie-wire, but if he said that to Trixie she'd be pissed with him for not doing it like that in the first place. She never understood that he didn't know things like that until the world showed him.

What he _did_ know was that whatever it was, the creature was muscular, determined, round, strong and ground-based. Almost certainly good eating. So when the kids turned up at three thirty to practice putting arrows into haybales, he took them to see, then shared the observation that it's a lot easier to hunt when you know where the quarry will be. They spent the rest of the daylight building a hunter's blind.

He murmured, trying words, "If the rabbit eats your garden, invite it to dinner." He nodded to himself, because it sounded like something Confuscious would say.

---

## It Takes a Village

The Project Liaison spoke: "After the death of Chris Borton, our resident Vanguard sent his apologies for not getting there fast enough."

Eric took over. "I'm inclined to take this at face value, because he put his money where his mouth is. If you sold this cartload of apology it would be enough to build a small house."

Shorty Fenaluci was on his feet, Italian monobrow beetled with rage. "We appreciate the intention but we are not for sale. It won't bring Chris back and we still had to tell his missus. _You_ had to do it, Eric. You _know_ what I mean."

"Take a look at what the gift is, Shorty. Then you'll understand." 

Sophia handed him a large flat box. He popped the top off, dropping it and flicking out the garment. 

"Woundsock. You wear it like underwear and if it's cut or punctured it self-applies as a tourniquet."

Eric handed it to the nearest man and another box appeared in his outstretched hand, this one smaller and deeper.

He popped it open. 

"Medkit." 

Lifting out a bright red bum-pack with an embroidered white cross, he unzipped the top and counted out the contents. He brandished a syringe looking thing. 

"One Wound-Stop. Stops bleeding." 

He tossed it to the group for inspection. 

"One H&aelig;mo-Restore. Replaces lost blood. You inject it." 

That one was in a clear semi-rigid case because it had a needle already attached. He threw it out for inspection. 

"And this is the gold: one Nanite Inhaler. You cannot buy these at any price. They are the reason Vanguards are so damn hard to kill, and you lucky sods get one each."

The other two items had come back. He threw out the inhaler, which briefly did a round and went back in the kit. Shorty stared at the pile. A whole cartload of second chances. But no second chance for Chris. He looked at the ground for a while, and reached a decision.

"Where is he?"

"Where's who?"

"The Vanguard."

Eric looked surprised by the question. Sophia took it.

"Up by the enclosures. He's not happy about losing a man so he's been staying close."

"We done for the day, here? I think we should go thank him in person."

Sophia took his measure and decided he wasn't going to do anything foolish. 

"Sure. Early mark for anyone who wants to do that."

"Right!" said Shorty, in his paddock voice. "Squirt and Boxer, here's the shuttle keys. Get into town and hit the Star, get a cold slab of Peroni Red. No, get two. My wallet's in the console."

"Red? What the fuck is Peroni _Red?_ Never heard of it."

"Lucky for you this area is full of Italian farmers. It's the good stuff. If the bottle-o next to Woolies doesn't have it then get it from the Star next to the IGA. It won't be on show, they'll get it out of the back room. And get a _cold_ slab. And don't just say Peroni or they'll give you the retail shit. When you got the beer go to the butcher's and get half a lamb. While you're doing that I'll get my spit ready. In fact go to the butcher first or they'll close. If they don't have half a lamb get a couple of roasts. Tell em it's for a spit."

"Someone round up team C&mdash;"

"No," interrupted Sophia, regretfully putting her boss hat on, "if team B is drinking then team C is on standby."

"Someone tell team C they're on standby," continued Shorty without missing a beat, "And tomorrow Eric will stand them a spit and some beer, won't you Eric!" His cheeky grin flashed across the room. "Right, you lot. Scrub up, we're visiting. Lefty and Geezer, get a table and some folding chairs, chuck em in the ute, then scrub up and drive it up there.

"Shorty?"

"Yes, Eric?"

"We're not quite done yet."

The back paddock voice made another appearance. "We're not done yet sorry, everyone back in!"

Sophia was grinning and holding up another elegant box like some sort of trophy. She tossed it to Eric who opened it with a flourish. 

"Magic space guns!"

"Looks like an SMG to me."

"It _is_ an SMG." Eric tossed a clip to Shorty and slapped another into the weapon. He racked a round, turned and fired at the ground. Firing was relatively muted. Impact was not. There was a thirty centimetre crater. Dirt rained a moment later.

Eric stacked colour-coded clips. "Red, explosive. Yellow, incendiary. Blue, armour-piercing. Armour piercing is interesting, it fires in bursts of three. The first two make a hole. The third is a nylon round that bounces around inside the armour. Nasty."

"No normal rounds?"

A black magazine joined the stack.

"Any _other_ kinds?"

"Depleted uranium was vetoed by her majesty here."

"Spoilsport!"

"You're welcome," said Sophia.

"Where do we get refills?"

"Same as regular ammo. This stuff is stupidly valuable so we're tracking it as assets. Use your regular weapons first, you'll know when to break these out. No more body bags."

"Limited supply then?"

"Depends on how much you like company. Vanguards get points for kills, they buy this stuff with points. If he goes with you he gets half points for _your_ kills and that buys you more ammo".

Shorty started to laugh. "Anything else, Santa?"

"Not today, we have to get back to the North Pole."

Sophia tapped his shoulder and held out a much larger box.

"Oh yeah. I forgot. This is for Lipssh, Lipswitch... the Pole."

"What is it? Aren't you gonna open it?"

"It's a SPANKr like the one the Ukrainian has." Eric grinned wickedly. "Put it in his locker and wait for him to find it. And get the security camera footage, I want to see his face. There's two rounds in the case, we have more."

Shorty found a permanent marker and a giant post-it. "Dear Shitsticks, apparently you have been a good boy this year. Santa visited up and he left this for you. Please don't test this one indoors."

They set it down and left, smiling at the good natured argument behind them over whether to test fire it before or after the Pole got back.
