# So Damn Contrary

> If you want to build a ship, don’t drum up people to collect wood and don’t assign them tasks and work, but rather teach them to long for the endless immensity of the sea.<br>
> — Antoine de Saint-Exupéry

---

Exasperated, she sighed. "Forest, why are you so damn contrary? I have to give them _something_. You aren't ready for visitors."

"Alright, I'll think about it. 

"As for why I'm like this..." he scratched his chin. His beard waggled comically, left fork longer than the right, like his moustache. "You know what a social contract is. We toe the line and the state provides and maintains order, that stuff."

"You don't need to be in state security for that, we teach it to children. It's the basis of society."

"The basis of society is no-man-is-an-island. We cooperate because there's too much to know and do for any ten men. I trust you and Eric with watching my back because even Oleksiy has to sleep sometime. And I trust you with organising because you're bloody good at it and I'm not. Those are my _choices_."

"Me and Eric? Why us? Aren't we the enemy?"

"Are you? I judge people by their actions, you know that."

"How do you know I'm not being nice to you to get you to drop your guard?"

> _He has his own state security, which never rests._

Autumn's presence drone flickered to life. She looked kind of hot and totally ridiculous in patent leather jackboots, a trench coat with shoulder boards, and a peaked cap. The avatar morphed to a chesire cat grin and winked out as the drone shut down.

> _Don't look so hurt. I watch everything. If your integrity were in doubt I wouldn't have told you that. For that matter I watch over you too, because he needs you more than he knows. Yes, that's right. I know what you've been doing._

"If _you_ noticed&mdash;"

> _You leave less of a trail than you think. Really, it's no trouble. I'm used to cleaning up after Captain Subtle over there._

Forest ignored this and pushed on with his lecture. "Choice. You can't have a contract without mutual assent. All those people are born and raised. As soon as they're capable of understanding it they're told they owe the state obedience for maintaining the system. That's not a binding contract, they never agreed to it. Not even implicitly. You were coerced. They _hide_ every other option behind constant make-work. The moment someone says 'I don't _want_ the system, I have my own answers' they get nasty. I can speak to that." He gestured at himself.

"Some people _like_ Xboxes and utilities that don't require a shovel."

"That's why I haven't been more ... forceful. They are entitled to their own freedom, such as it is."

"You know these people aren't self-sufficient, right?"

"What?"

"The people here are self-reliant, not self-sufficient. Every day I see someone go into town for supplies. Building hardware mostly, or tools. Things you can't make out here because a smelter and a drop-forge are too big for a farm shed."

A long silence ensued. Forest looked unhappy.

"Autumn, I need a&mdash;"

> _Reboot plan. They're normally used either for colonising new planets or recovering from global war._

"Why is that a thing?"

> _It's a big galaxy. Some creatures are even dumber than you. You'll need a new catalogue for 400 points._

Forest whistled. "What the hell is _in_ it at that price?"

> _Everything. A bunch of instruction manuals and a lot of hardware. Everything you need to restart from scratch in one generation._

"Define 'generation' for us dumb creatures."

> _About thirty terrestrial years. Or ten, depending on how hard you work. It can't be less than that, trees take time to grow._

"From what size population?"

> _You'll need twenty thousand people. In twenty villages. Sited around resources._

"Fine, buy it."

> _Already have. With discretionary project points._

"Why?"

> _I move in mysterious ways. You did invite me to play god._

Sophia, who was miles away, returned to Earth with a total non-sequitur. "It's not all downside, you know. My life was pretty good in Sydney. I had all the creature comforts you can imagine and a nice apartment in a quiet part of the harbour."

"Just like everyone else?"

She looked confused a moment. Then light dawned in her eyes. "Oh."

"Did you enjoy dinner the other night? Trixie likes you. Subversion and propaganda aren't my only reasons for inviting you over."

"Propaganda? You never tell me what you think. I have to dig for it."

"Trixie says the same thing. Did you enjoy the meal?"

"Yes. It was incredible. It always is, she's a dab hand in the kitchen."

"The mutton was from a farm out the other side of town. They let us know when they're slaughtering and we take a side."

"Mutton? Not lamb?"

"That's why it's so tasty. Lamb has no flavour."

"But isn't mutton tough?"

"Was it?"

"No?"

"There you go. The system runs for profit. It tells you what to do and think. It's not exactly evil but you are being farmed. Out here we do things because they need doing. That soap in our wash-house, the one you like. Janna makes that. In big batches. Then she does a tour of the valley handing it out. On the way people give her eggs and honey, which she also distributes to whoever's low. Down the far end, she shovels the horseshit out of Michael's stables."

"Yes, she told me that."

"Been chatting, have we? Good stuff. Then you'll know what I mean. She doesn't do it for money. Money is a way of keeping score. Life isn't a competition. Well, it can be. But it isn't here."

"I couldn't bring myself to tell her how bad she smells."

"Why do you think she makes all that soap? She knows. It's an occupational hazard. Do you know what soap is made from?"

"...no?"

"Pig fat boiled in wood-ash lye. While it's bubbling away it absolutely reeks. She has it down to a fine art, and we gave her some better tools for getting the mix spot on. Plus she makes essential oils from all those flowers and whatnot and perfumes it. If she wants a firmer bar, she adds a handful of salt to the mix—then you get some sodium stearate, which makes the soap hard enough to cut and stack. With just wood ash lye, it's mostly potassium soap and comes out soft. Literally the soft-soap."

"That huge ominous cauldron?"

"Yeah, Autumn has a sense of humour. That thing is Class I equipment, a real life witch's cauldron. It can tell you to the milligram how much lye to add, or whether you're over and you need to neutralise. I don't know what they look like in the wild but Janna looked pretty happy with Autumn's choice."

> _Some people have enough sense to run with my impeccable sense of style._

"She's a gun horticulturalist, behind that head full of elves. Trixie showed you our orchard, I imagine? I started it but most of the credit belongs to Janna. Have you been in there late autumn or winter, when oranges are in season? The trees are so heavy with fruit I have to prop the branches to keep them off the ground. Janna tells me I should prune them back to make the branches thicken, but the damn things never stop fruiting."

"OK?"

"My point is that in a properly managed village food falls out of the sky. We have two kinds of orange, mandarins, grapefruit, avocados. Cherries, peaches, nectarines, plums, apples. In the glasshouse there's bananas and a mango tree. Hang on." Forest rose and rummaged, producing a huge orange. He cut it into quarters and returned with them on a small plate. "Try one!" He took one and bit down on it like a footballer's mouthguard. 

Sophia copied him. The flavour was so 'orange' and it was so sweet it was like one of those orange flavoured cough-lollies. A lifetime of propriety fell away and she exclaimed with a mouthful of orange: "It's so ... _sweet_. It tastes like orange Strepsils. I thought that was an over-the-top artificial flavour. I didn't know real oranges could taste like that."

"This is what they taste like when things aren't perverted by greed."

"Is it a lot of work, looking after your trees? I know it's a labour of love."

"Hmmm... in this case I dug some holes ten years ago to plant the tree. Took all afternoon. And every now and then I piss on them. Apart from that mostly I organised for our grey water to run into the orchard. This is actually what I've been trying to show you: we aren't the weirdos. This is what you get by default. To make them sour and tasteless requires civilisation. Here in the valley we plant things we want and encourage them. Plants are the easiest. And Janna's the backbone of that."

"But doesn't all that produce cause bugs and mice and whatnot to boom?"

"It would if we were dumb enough to plant endless rows of just one thing. You have to mix it up so there's five things a bug doesn't like between things it does. When we came here we were arse-deep in leeches. Now we have well-fed poultry. The toilet smells nice and there aren't any flies because it's surrounded by the right herbs.

Commercial farms plant monocultures for 'efficient' harvesting. Then they drown them in poison to fix the problem they just created. The bugs evolve, so the problem comes back. It's not actually all that efficient.

"But surely that makes the harvest a disorganised shambles!"

"It would if I wanted to harvest all at once, fill a truck with boxes and send them to a supermarket. But that's not how we live out here. Kids walk past, they help themselves."

"You shout at them! I heard words no ten year-old should know!"

"Of course I do, forbidden fruit is even better."

Inside Sophia, a cynical voice wondered whether it wasn't a deliberate lesson. She glanced at Forest. Was he that subtle? Autumn certainly was.

He gestured at the kitchen. "Trixi does a roast, I need two big handfuls of rosemary, two or three onions, couple of garlic. For the rosemary that's a walk in the garden with some snips. Fresh as you please. The garlic, we stagger the crop but it _is_ seasonal so they might be in the root cellar. 

"You know the big dam at my place, just up from where the logging track hits the valley road? We put that in and BAM! leech central plus instant mosquito plague. So I put guppies in. They eat the wrigglers. Then I put blueclaw in. They eat the guppies and the leeches. They're a bit _too_ good at that, the mosquitos were coming back, so I put Murray Cod in. The blueclaw ate them. So I put adults in and now they eat each other.

"I'll have to get you over for my gumbo, cod and cray. But now, the ducks eat guppies, blueclaw nymphs and leeches." 

"What eats the ducks?"

"We do. I seem to remember you tucking in, too."

Sophia looked heavily conflicted. "Don't tell me _that!_ They're so cute and fluffy when they're little!"

"Trixie says the same thing. Doesn't stop her from cooking them. But I'll let you guess who has to kill, clean and dress them." 

He rose and tended the fire, adding fuel and fanning it back into a cheery blaze that pushed back the night chill. In the still air, the smoke rose vertically, a surreal column of haze lit from below.

"I was thinking about what you said, about not being self-sufficient. You're right. But neither is the rest of the country. The tools in my shed, the old Sidchrome socket sets that my father gave me, they were made here. But that hasn't been true for decades. Government and big business offshored everything in the name of profit. Nothing is made here anymore."

"Yes?" said Sophia, for whom this was ancient history and normal.

"Self-reliance is on the path to self-sufficient. The rest of the country isn't even self-reliant."

"What are you saying?"

"I'm saying that national debt is soaring because the country consumes everything and produces nothing. The country went back to being a mining colony. At some point China will decide it doesn't want coal and iron ore and then the game ends in tears and starvation."

She stared at him. "You _are_ planning to act. You think they're dead men walking and therefore restraint is meaningless."

"Good summary."

"I told ... my superiors that you weren't a security risk." She looked pointedly at him. "I told them that all they have to do is nothing and you're happy to stay here doing your own thing."

"Also a good summary."

"They can't _both_ be good summaries. Either you're going to act or you aren't."

"I'm 'happy living in a caravan in the bush caretaking my AI's little shop of horrors.' But your colleague and his friends won't be able to control themselves. They will poke the bear."

On her way home, driving slowly down the rain scarred road, she spoke to no-one. "Surveillance is something I'm used to. That doesn't bother me. Much. But I think I know who rules the valley. What are you actually up to?"

No answer but tinkling laughter at the edge of hearing.

At home there was an email with no sender.

> _Fear no evil. I have your back._ —Autumn.
