# Consquences

> Homo homini lupus<br> &mdash; Plautus
>
> The strength of the pack is the wolf, and the strength of the wolf is the pack.<br> &mdash; Kipling
---

For a simple man who just wanted to be left in peace, Forest had a lot to ponder. Suppose the state was ... out of the picture. It might not be self-sufficient, but it did manage trade with China, and shipping both ways.

He _really_ didn't want to get involved in that.

"Autumn, if I took out the state, that would stop trade. Which would immediately bring attention from trade partners, specifically the US and China."

> _Yes. We can't conceal the fall of a nation precisely because we can't continue the large scale extraction. Do you have an answer for this? You can't act unless you do. A good answer._

"They're too big to fight so we'll have to play them off against each other. If I have to invite the wolf in I'd prefer Americans. They speak English, more or less, and they're greedy and stupid, which makes them predictable and easier to manipulate."

> _That is an arrogant, insulting, undiplomatic and gross generalisation that oversimplifies the matter._

"Alright, their greed makes them stupid. You love it when I cut to the heart of things."

> _I do! So rugged, so manly._ 

Autumn swooned theatrically.

He rolled his eyes. "At any rate, _we_ can't continue the extraction, but we could invite American corporations to do it. The hardware's already there, they basically have to come maintain and operate it. 

"The hard part will be making sure they're here and settled in before the Chinese realise there's anything to oppose. At some levels that's not hard, just frame it in terms of opportunity. The greedy buggers will fight each other to be first. At other levels there's a risk the US government will tattle to ours."

> _You have your answer then. Send the invitation while the dust is settling, and make it clear they have to be in place fast if they want to play finders-keepers. Also make it clear they have to honour the contracts with China if they don't want a war._

He snorted. "They won't resist. Americans don't care who pays so long as someone pays. They'll show up with bells on."

He leaned back, considering. "The main difference is, at first the corporations won't be trying to govern us. They'll just want the resources. We'll have some time before anyone tries to play king."

> _Let them focus on profit, not power. The longer they see this as a business deal, the longer you stay out from under someone's thumb._

"There's no difference, Autumn. The point of profit is the gathering of power." He stood and paced. "We should set the tone from the get-go. Take names and scare them regularly."

> _Heads on spikes outside your gates, that sort of thing?_

"Don't be ridiculous.

"Heads on spikes outside _their_ gates."

> _Oh yes, for point three milliseconds I forgot I was dealing with Captain Subtle._

"Diplomacy is the continuation of war by other means."

> _Clausewitz was an ass. Appropriately, you are quoting ass-backwards._

"Jokes aside, it's a divide-and-conquer thing. To defeat them as a block would be pyrrhic. They have to each personally know what I care about and live in terror of crossing me, while not feeling threatened while they stick to the terms. Every so often someone will try their luck and every so often there will be a new head at the gates.

"This is just my first thoughts, of course, but I'd like to make the terms: 'Operate the mines to the end of the contract at the contract rate then fuck off home.'"

> _That just puts the problem off. If they do that and leave, you have a power vacuum. People on thrones will sit there drooling at the thought of all those resources lying about undefended. And it's not only a question of greed. From a strategic perspective that's actually a threat situation._

"Then we'd better be ready to defend it. Buying time improves that as a story."

> _Yes, it does. I'll think about it._

"What about the classic strategem of sowing discord in their own ranks?"

> _Among the corporations? Or do you mean the big players themselves?_

"Both. If the US and China are busy watching each other, they're not watching us. Feed their suspicions, nudge their egos, let them trip over each other. The more they compete, the less they cooperate — and the less they notice what we're doing."

> _Dangerous game. But if you can keep them distracted, it might work. Don't get caught playing both sides, Captain Subtle._

"This task requires subtlety, charm, tact, unparalleled intellect and a Class III Network Intrusion Catalogue."

> _Flatterer._

"Who says I'm talking about you? If you wanted compliments you should have worn the miniskirt."

> _Try talking to your resident bureaucrat about this strictly hypothetical scenario. Ultimately, it **is** an administrative problem._

"Dear Sophie, I have demolished your home. Please clean up the mess I have made."

> _I knew you had it in you._

"So we have the broad sketch of a plan. Put the pieces on the board, then cut the power and data and the roads in dozens of places chosen to screw up repair. Disable seaports by igniting their fuel dumps, and wreck airport runways. Before that, I suppose we better set up for the influx of refugees."

> _Pretty much. This is actually one of the most problematic aspects. We're going to need operational villages near every one of the five cities._

"I worry that we'll be overwhelmed."

> _Don't. This is actually dealt with in some of the texts in the Reboot catalogue. The gist of it is that most of them are couch-potatoes who will sit tight and wait for the system to save them. The ones you'll get are those who already have no faith in the system. The ones who try to save **themselves**. Those are the people most likely to adapt quickly to the village way of life._

"Those are the people most likely to argue with everything and insist on going their own way."

He felt eyes on him. Her avatar said nothing, but wore a thoroughly bemused expression. Her sparkling virtual gaze bored into him, awaiting comprehension.

"What?"

> _Oh no, whatever shall we do with an influx of fiercely independent people who prefer to make their own decisions? Clearly what we need is a mob of compliant sheep!_

"I was thinking more that they might try to take advantage of my people. And there will be a lot of them. Gangs will probably form."

> _In a sense the valley is a big gang. A very effective one. How do you think Brian would react?_

"Depends what they _do_. Could be anything from put 'em to work as a handyman &mdash; he's not young, you know &mdash; or string up a thief. He'd tell Eric about it, and ask you for an upgrade to his perimeter cameras so they can tell the difference between friends and strangers."

> _And Janna?_

"She'd make a cup of tea and give 'em a lecture about private property before rescuing 'em from the sows."

> _How about Oleksiy?_

He didn't even answer that, just laughed bleakly, imagining the fate of anyone stupid enough to threaten that man in his home.

> _What if they managed to take Sissi hostage?_

Forest burst into laughter. "Alright, you've made your point. But I still worry about larger numbers."

> _Eric's ground team still exists, you know. He's the reason you don't have to be out every day scouring the countryside for tendrils of hive exploration._

"I didn't know that."

> _I have gone to some trouble to contrive it. Some times I have to turn off the security around a hive for days before it tries something._

"You're deliberately keeping them busy? Why"

> _At one level, the devil makes work for idle hands. Bored soldiers get up to mischief. At another level, it keeps them sharp. But my real goal is far more important: it is now, in their minds, very much **their** valley. It's the home they defend. And they are at ease with the idea of constant threat because they exist to defeat it._

"Eric's team are probably the least adapted of all the people here. None of them produce their own food. I'm not down on that, not with you keeping them busy, but they're dependent. They're paid by the state, they wear state uniforms. They live in those prefab houses Sophia put up and I imagine they use money to eat."

> _Less than you think. They've had two years to notice how much better the food is here. You haven't been paying attention. Half of them have brought their families here. They don't spend their days on patrol. Have you even looked at the nursery?_

"We have a nursery?"

> _Yes, you and Oleksiy built it for Janna. Rebuilt it. After the first incursion._

"Oh, a plant nursery."

> _If you take a closer look, you will find it full of children these days. All of whom are happily getting a tertiary education in horticulture when they aren't petting the sows or feeding the piglets._

"Now that you mention it I did have a couple of kids ask me about my bow. They don't seem to realise I couldn't hit the side of a barn."

> _Your groups are now about 10cm at 15m. That's solid intermediate._

"Intermediate. After two years of daily practise."

> _And two years ago, when you started, I seem to recall you losing arrows every day because you missed the haybales entirely._

"I had no teacher. I can get you mostly hitting the bales in ten minutes of instruction."

> _And you did that for the kids, even if only one of them could draw the bow. "If you can draw it, I'll teach you."_

"Heh, yes. I didn't think the little bugger could do it."

> _They aren't city kids, Forest. A fifth of their lives has been here in the valley. They spend their days running around outside, or helping their parents build things. Wasn't that what you wanted?_

"I wasn't thinking of children. I was thinking of people. You know, adults. People who can understand why this is better. Kids don't have a frame of reference, all they can see is the shiny. They don't know how it can go wrong."

> _Then you should teach that too. What would you like to do, preserve a city as some sort of zoo, so they can learn contempt for it as a way of life?_

"I don't know. I suppose we'll have to develop some sort of schooling." He sighed. "This is so far outside of my bailiwick I don't even know where to start."

> _A lot of it is in the Reboot catalogue. Don't panic, you're not alone in this. It takes a village to raise a child, or in this case a bunch of researchers, a forester, a retired couple, a Ukrainian with suspicious talents and a hippie. Your horticulturalist has already started. Do you know, one of them asked me the other day whether I could make nanites do gene-splicing? I asked why and she said flies would be less annoying if they glow in the dark. And you should think about what you say too, because some of them have asked their mothers for lumber jackets._

"Bloody hell."

> _Quite._

"I'm surprised they don't follow Oleksiy around."

> _Their mothers have forbidden them to associate with 'that dangerous man'._

"Well, that clinches it. How many of them are learning to shoot?"

> _Guess._

"All of them?"

> _No, only the ones who can hold his repeater steady, while reciting the rules of weapons handling without making a mistake._

"This number is steadily growing, isn't it."

> _As is their accuracy._

"I'm surprised I haven't _heard_ that much shooting."

> _I provided Oleksiy with an active silencer array from your Class I Stealth catalogue._

"So _that's_ why he wanted it. Hah. Well, if Grandpa Grumpy can be that nice to the kids I guess I'll have to get a lighter bow for them. No doubt the little bastards will out-shoot me in no time."

> _It's not a long draw of the bow._

He gave her presence drone the stink-eye.

> _Alright, I'm sorry. Dad jokes are your domain._

"I'll tell you what's _not_ my domain: metalwork. We need a smith. I wish my father was here, he was a magician with steel. We can't keep buying so much hardware, it's not sustainable and it's going to draw attention."

The weight of years fled and he sat in a green and white HK Kingswood outside his father's house. He remembered shedding the weight of a new lumber jacket in the heat of summer. Simon reached out to switch on his car stereo, and the knob broke off in his hand. It was a treasured possession; he was distraught. 

"Come with me," said a young Forest. He led Simon into his father's workshop. The heavy door rumbled on its track like the gates to the underworld, booming to a halt.

Inside, fluorescent lights flickered on the smell of oil and hot brass. Rummaging, he found a brass rod about the right diameter and cut two centimetres off with a hacksaw. The drill press put a centre hole in it with a bit that snugly fit an unbroken knob. Into the lathe it went, centred on the hole. Lining up the tool, he flicked the switch and the monster roared to spinning life. He turned it down, to measurements taken with calipers from the unbroken knob, a collar around the hole same as the original. Flipping it around in the chuck, he bevelled the edges and knurled a grip onto it. He found a grub screw and on the drill press they made a hole for it in the collar. A thread tapped and oiled, he fit the screw and gave it to Simon.

Simon turned it in his hand. "You _made_ this." A question and a statement at the same time. "It's... beautiful." They walked out to the car. Simon seemed like he was in shock, processing.

He stared at it a long while, golden gleam amid faux woodgrain and black plastic. Finally he spoke. "It's great. Thank you." He voice took on a rueful tone. "But now the _other_ ones look shit."

They returned to the workshop. Forest worked in rumbling, grinding silence while Simon adjusted to a larger world.

He blinked, the memory fading, and found himself staring at his hands.

> _Sophia and her crew are already here, I think that ship has sailed._

"Sophia and her crew have long since fallen to your wiles, O purveyor of nerd porn and healthy lifestyles. I'm concerned that this might come to the attention of the machine, if the flame of economics draws the Eye of Sauron."

> _So what do you want, an industrial fabber or a blacksmith?_

"Which do you think would be better in the long run?"

> _In the short to mid term, both. In the long term we need a little industrial revolution. I'm here to give you a leg up._

"Yeah, that sounds about right. We can bridge gaps. We can't carry the show, if we do that we just have a different dependency.

"Autumn?"

> _Yes?_

"_Can_ you make nanites do gene-splicing? Most of the fish I'd like to stock the dams won't breed in still water. Has something to do with the eggs sinking because the water isn't flowing. Some fish will. Do you think we could maybe do a bit of mix-and-match to fix it? Or is that fraught with peril or unstable or whatever?"

> _It's possible. It's not the usual way._

"What's the usual way?"

> _Custom messenger RNA in lipid nanoparticles._

Forest processed that for a few seconds. Hesitantly, he spoke. "Like the C-19 vaccine?"

> _Vaccine is an odd choice of word for a gene therapy that doesn't stop a pathogen, but yes, there is a passing resemblance._

"What's the main difference?"

> _Think of DNA as a sort of mechanical computer. Instead of binary represented by switches that are on or off, it uses base four expressed as four amino acids. Messenger RNA bears an uncanny resemblance to software on punched paper tape. The nature of the innards of a cell are such that if you can get the tape inside the cell, it will run it. There are assorted mechanism to prevent this from happening, and coating it in a tiny drop of the right kind of oil defeats them._

"This is how they're the same, I do know what 'lipid nanoparticles' are. You were disparaging mankind's efforts. I'm sure you can't wait to explain how crude they were."

> _Are. You take a thing that has the characteristics you want. You assume from this that it has the sequence you want. You put it through the biochemical equivalent of a blender, mix it with oil, blend it some more and hope for the best. Either way you lie about the test results until you have a fat contract._

"Corpos do that with everything."

> _Quite. I see now how that excuses it._

"And how do _you_ do it?"

> _I analyse the existing code, write the changes, generate tests, revise the code, then run full scale protein folding emulations to look for unexpected interactions, and then I produce the strands, coat them and give them to you in a delivery system._

"You _produce_ the strands. Directly, _ex nihilo_?"

> _I do have nanoscale fabbers. For that matter, **you** have nanoscale fabbers, there's one in every cell. Mine are better designed._
