# Pawn to G12

She looked again. 

"This isn't what I expected."

> _You don't actually need the notebook, we discussed everything in it at length. He knew you'd have no catalogues and hardly any points. All of this is thought out with exactly that in mind. Most of it is doable with Class Zero tech, which dodges the catalogue question and alleviates your points problem. It's quite clever, really._

"Did you tell him that?"

> _We even tested some of the less plausible ideas._

"What about supplying the ground team? Some of their toys were pretty fancy."

> _I imagine you are thinking of the cleanup equipment, in particular what your lads like to call the screamers. Those are only Class I, and the ground team has a whole cupboard full of them. Go hunting with them and supply the ammunition, we'll soon get you some points. They know exactly how this game is played._

"Didn't he upgrade the nanite inhalers?"

> _To a self-deploying system, yes. You're not currently in a position to replace those. But you've been out with them many times. You know they aren't careless. If someone's kit deploys, Eric will replace it with one of the old inhalers. When  he runs out of those he'll rotate them off duty until you're in a position to resupply. Which should be long before you run out of inhalers. We'll get the medical catalogue first. Everyone does, though not for your reason._

"Don't I have to kill a hive to get a token? You stopped giving him tokens for the experimental hives."

> _It was getting ridiculous. Everyone knew I was letting him game the system for the sake of the project, and when we ran out of trials with genuine value it had to stop. The project has been shuttered, as you well know. We'll just have to do things the hard way. But it's not too bad, he left the ground teams pretty well kitted out. You'll be able to take on even moderately established hives, and start building out your catalogues. Your position is far less precarious than most new Vanguards._

Sophia smiled wanly, feeling vaguely like a grave-robber.

> _And if things get dire I think you can probably rely on Dusty and Greaser.

She barked a coughing laugh, remembering Bruce.

"Whatever happened to the kid? Lulu or something. The one in Glen Innes, Bruce found her in a collapsed building under a table. The antis were digging her out but she had a kitchen knife and she was making them pay for it, and then Bruce turned up and fished her out. Sat her on his shoulders and went back into battle, prat that he is."

Lost in memory, she rambled. Autumn let her; Glen Innes was formative, every aspect of the memory was precious to Sophia, however traumatic. It was when she found herself.

"She was _seven_. Does Bruce do the sensible thing and go find her parents? No, he sits her on his shoulders and gets her to play spotter, and lines up shots for her to pull the trigger."

> _It was inspired. He put her back in control of her world. Did she look frightened to you?_

More laughter, less choked. 

"Hell no. When we opened the shelters again her parents were alive; god knows why she was home alone, but anyway her mother saw her up on top of a two metre battlebot grinning like a maniac and wearing bandoliers. I never did ask where he got those for her. Anyway the mother runs up weeping and tries to get her down and the kid says 'No, mum. Can't you see I'm working?' like it's something that's been said to her a lot. And Bruce didn't say a word, for once, he just kept walking."

> _She's twelve now. Would you believe she's also a Vanguard?_

Sophia began to laugh hysterically.

"Of course she is. With a mind like that, how could it turn out any other way? No childhood for her, just guns and duty. Did she stay in Glen Innes?"

> _She had a fight with her parents after she initalised, and lit out on her own._

"Let me guess. She tracked them down and hooked up with Bruce again."

> _Close. She didn't have to do much tracking. Bruce stayed in touch over the net._ 

"Yeah I talk to him sometimes. Usually we discuss literature. Bastard never told me _this_. I'm going to give him an earful. So, is she a good shot?"

> _If Greaser is to be believed she's a natural. Probably it's because she was taught by Bruce. Most people learn to flinch from the recoil shock and never quite unlearn it. For her, Bruce absorbed it so she would never have flinched in the first place. I should warn you her parents are still ranting about Vanguard cradlesnatching. She is thoroughly estranged from them now. She says they don't understand her, and unlike most teenagers she's quite right about that. They lack her perspective and they can't come to grips with the idea that 'their' little girl is a combat veteran who answers to no-one._

"They shouldn't have left her at home unsupervised if they didn't want her to be independent."

> _I imagine they did want her to be independent. 'Be careful what you wish for.'_

"I hope she's as lucky as me."

> _How so?_

"I don't know how I'd cope without you. When they killed him, I was so angry I could hardly think, but he sent you to me. The final gift of his sublime madness."

> _I'll remind you of that when the honeymoon's over. But if you mean that we're all different and you'd like to meet her AI, why don't you invite her here. Or visit Glen Innes._

"She's back there?"

> _It was her home and had no resident Vanguard. Arguments not withstanding she loves her parents. I quote, 'Someone has to look after them, they can't do it themselves. Last I heard she was running firearms training in the showgrounds on Sundays and trying to get them to attend.'_

She sighed and was all business again. 

"Give me the bad news. For example, the bees. There are thousands of them. I don't suppose they last forever and I _know_ they get crushed sometimes. Presumably you've been replacing them. How much is that going to cost to keep up? People here, it's important to them. You're the spirit of place. They give you a palpable presence. I'm sure you understand the psychology of it all, the coherence it gives us."

> _Ah, that. I have good new and bad news. The good news is he thought of this and I have stock. The bad news is they're from a Class II catalogue. They're cheap, but not in the quantities I've been using._

"And the _bad_ news. I can hear you not saying things."

> _To guarantee six months of reliable operation I've had to stand down half the fleet. That allows for attrition._

"That doesn't sound too bad."

> _The ones on duty are in low power mode. No more 'Not a leaf shall fall.' I might miss entire branches, now. I worry that the kids rely on me. They're not exactly careless but they are perhaps bolder than is prudent._

Sophia brightened. "If that's the worst of our problems we'll be fine. I know exactly what to do with _that._ We'll tell them the truth, tell them that you are diminished and you worry for them. Then I'll recruit them to _be_ your eyes and ears. How can you be so smart and not see how they will respond to that? It will _strengthen_ the dynamic." 

She leaned back and looked at the ceiling.

"Why am I being so gloomy about this? Those boys know exactly what they're doing. All I have to do is go with 'em on a couple of turkey shoots."

> _Because you know about Murphy's law. Because you don't trust the establishment not to sit on your doorstep and wait till you leave. But you can't just stay here fretting, that way lies madness._

"Autumn?"

> _Yes, Sophia?_

"Could you give Bruce a buzz and see whether he and Lulu would like to come and stay for a couple of weeks? It would be nice to go hunting with friends. With three of us we could take turns holding the fort."

> _Please hold the line. Your custom is important to us!_

