# A Gentle Warning

They strolled up to the entrance looking much like a couple with their child. One of the two very ceremonial looking, but nonetheless armed, guards stepped forward to address them.

"Parliament is in closed session today, I'm afraid. There is no public access. Something to do with the terrorists, I expect."

Sophia smiled at him. 

"We realise you _are_ just doing a thankless job, and you've been polite to us, so we'll make this as pleasant as it can be." 

This was not what he expected. While she spoke, the man put the little girl behind him, where she seemed to be doing something with her outfit. She stepped back into view and the air about her shimmered. Something was odd about the man. He was too still, with none of the constant adjustments of posture that people make.

"Terrorist is such an ugly word, but I suppose I _am_ here to frighten them. We'll be going inside to address parliament. You can try to stop us if you really feel you must, but I'd prefer not to hurt you. Apart from anything else, it's terrible PR. There's cameras everywhere, so you'll have to do something I suppose. Try to shoot me, and then I'll take your weapon and let you go."

He gaped at her, and his partner actually got a shot off. Bruce caught it, tossed it in the air and punted it back at him where it struck his vest with a dull thump.

Her hand flashed out with inhuman speed, plucking the sidearm from its holster and tossing it behind her, the other seizing the barrel of his slung rifle. The pistol hand lashed forward, striking the weapon where the body ended, bending the barrel.

"Off you go. Summon re-inforcements, but not too fast. We don't want too many casualties."

Bruce continued to say nothing, striding forward to the entrance. Alarms triggered, and heavy bolts secured the door top and bottom. He ignored them and punched the door at even intervals until he found the framework, and ripped the panelling off. Swapping a hand for a cutting disc, he made space for Sophia to step through, then systematically demolished the remainder while she was inside.

---

"I suppose you're all wondering why I've called you here today." Her voice resonated through the chamber, rich with harmonics, warm and clear but not loud. Almost in your ear. The sort of sound political campaigners dream of. She undid her hair and ..._bees_ flew out, three of them. The man who thought he saw it shook his head. They spread out like cameramen and hovered.

Confusion, tense scattered laughter.

"What do the Roman Empire, you, and every other empire ever have in common?"

"Is this a joke?"

"In a sense, yes, a very bad one. But today it's a Socratic question."

"People? Cities?"

"Right but not central. Keep trying."

Autumn's presence drone flickered to life, but this time it was Forest's face and voice, large as life. You could almost smell oil and woodchips.

> _They centralised, and then they fell._
>
> _Centralisation is the crystal meth of societies. At first it's great, they're stronger, smarter, faster, more stamina._
>
> _And then they can't perform without it. The doses get bigger and bigger. Sicker and sicker, an ugly twisted mockery of what might have been. Brutal, untrustworthy and desperate._
>
> _And then a whole people dies._

"What do you want?"

"I want you to do what you promise: honour the social contract. You don't represent, you rule. But that's inevitable, you're as trapped in the endless cycle as the people you oppress."

"Who the fuck _are_ you?"

"Me? Once I was your pawn. But in a forest, I was queened." Her tone darkened. "Now, I am the end of the long night. Daybreak, if you like."

Her gaze swept the galleries. "I know what you did." She sighed heavily.

"I also know you can't help yourselves, but a warning is what he would have done." She gathered, drawing herself up, accusing gaze sweeping their eyes.

"We are not your thralls. What you are doing is slavery with lipstick. If people choose to submit, that is their prerogative, but if you try to force we who are free, defence will be pre-emptive."

She interrupted herself to glare at them.

"If you are worthy of the privilege you claim, you will tell them the truth. No more secrets. No more lies."

The Speaker of the House rose from his seat, drawing himself up to his full height, a good head taller than Sophia. With quiet dignity, shushing the PM with a hand, he spoke.

"For all our flaws, we are the duly elected representatives of the people. By what right does a terrorist castigate us, for all her might and unearned privilege?"

She regarded him, tapping her finger. It was curiously loud in the held-breath around them.

"An interesting trap, Speaker, I salute your intellect and your courage. If I say nothing you've made your point, and if I justify my position I let you frame the debate, set the terms. But I think you are sincere, if misguided, so I will answer anyway."

She turned and rose slowly into the air, eyes panning the galleries on both sides of the House, fixing them with her gaze. In response to her need Autumn produced a little dais. She settled onto it, eyes boring into the Speaker's.

"We are not terrorists. We have done nothing but rule ourselves. Why would you find that terrifying?"

The Speaker did not respond, could not think of a response that wouldn't diminish their authority. The Prime Minister was less cautious, full of belief in his right to rule.

"This is a _single nation_. The constitution does not _allow_ for secession. Tasmania tried it. By the book, referendum with a three quarter majority. Sent the papers off to Britain, and back they came, rejected by the House of Lords. Because the constitution says _indissoluble_."

She smiled, and sniffed. "The constitution says the union _of states_ is indissoluble. It says nothing of other entities."

She swept them with her gaze again. "We're in a room full of people who spend all day thinking about power. Who can tell me what is the essence of sovereignty?"

They might have been greedy or self-serving or vain, but most of them knew what a trap smelt like. No one spoke.

"Come on," she smiled, "we're on air. The people are _listening_, and you _adore_ being on TV. Explain it for them." Her head cocked to one side: "Your taxes at work!"

With a crash the inner doors flung open and armoured police charged through, but they couldn't use arms with the galleries for a backstop, and Sophia merely flung little grenades that burst into sticky, immobilising foam.

A bee flew down and closer. She looked directly into its camera.

"Sovereignty, yes. Well, we can't leave our audience hanging like that, even the commercial networks would have run out of ads by now. I'll help you: underneath all the bullshit, sovereignty is about the ability to enforce. You characters are salty because we rounded up your bully boys and send them home in their underpants. Not because we did it, but because if you can't enforce then you aren't sovereign, and your claim to power falls apart."

She paused, remembering her message. As though to herself, "Oh yes, the warning. Before that, I have a little something for you all to think about. The constitution he was quoting says a lot of things. What it does _not_ say is that members of parliament, once elected, have any obligation to do the will of the people. If it did, parties would be illegal. These are _not_ your representatives. They never have been."

"Now, the warning: you who love to centralise so that you may control... consider how vulnerable this makes you."

"For example..." Sophia raised a hand theatrically. Outside there was a terrific _CRUMP_ and the lights went out. Her departing footfalls were impossibly clear and confident in the padded dark. 

It was a hour before power returned. The lights did not. They shuffled out by the glow of cellphones. The water was off, too. Only to a small area, they discovered, which was itself a lesson in mercy; it would have been much easier to wreck the system.

In the wall by the main doors, glowing soft in the last light of day, a message graven deep into stone. It ran the length of the wall: "RULE NONE AND SUFFER NONE TO RULE" Beneath it, an elegant hand incised into the stone turned the building into a tombstone for their ambition: "_It is my fate, my honour, my duty to hold you accountable for everything you do._"

They were still petulantly demanding answers when a streak of plasma sundered the heavens, deafened a city and left a two metre deep crater across the road outside the army stores at Wollstone. Apart from their ears, no-one was harmed, as though whoever did it knew exactly when the road was clear. Leaflets rained from a conspicuously empty sky.

James Cleary, MP, stopped sputtering and picked one up. It was stiff, fine paper. An odd, small size as though torn from a very expensive notebook. Unfolding it he found elegant copperplate handwriting, with a wax signet seal. He adjusted his glasses and squinted: around an ornate H were the same words graven in stone outside the chambers.

> Sorry about the mess, but apparently I didn't make myself clear. That was the second warning. There won't be a third. &mdash; _SH_

---

She sat on the edge of of the roof, looking down on the city. The little girl sat quietly, waiting for her to speak. She didn't at first, only weeping silent tears that fell into the abyss. 

Her frame heaved, wracked with a sigh laden inevitable consequen"You heard that? Weren't you outside with Bruce?"

"It's all over the net. You _broadcast_ it. Wasn't that the point of all this grandstanding? To call them out in front of the people? I thought it was a bit odd to do it dressed up like a gothic power fantasy, but Bruce said it was probably a human thing."

She processed that, then thought about the armour. "Autumn, when I finally have the points and catalogues to replace this armour, maybe we can go with something more cheerful?"
ce.

"They can't help themselves. Look at all this. They think it is their triumph. It is their prison, and I will make it their tomb."

"You look like Batman," observed the girl.

Sophia blinked at this non sequitur.

"I do _not!_ ... If anything I look like Black Widow."

"Doesn't really suit 'Daybreak', Miss 'End of the Long Night' &mdash; all that black armour."

"You heard that? Weren't you outside with Bruce?"

"It's all over the net. You _broadcast_ it. Wasn't that the point of all this grandstanding? To call them out in front of the people? I thought it was a bit odd to do it dressed up like a gothic power fantasy, but Bruce said it was probably a human thing."

She processed that, then thought about the armour. "Autumn, when I finally have the points and catalogues to replace this armour, maybe we can go with something more cheerful?"

Lulu quit fiddling with her phone and held it up. "Like this." 

It was from the movie. Natasha Romanov in _white_ armour.

> _Sure, why not._

After a moment they both began to laugh.
