# Luck

> "Grub first. _Then_ ethics."  
> &mdash; Bertolt Brecht, German Playwright

---

"Autumn?" 

> _Yes?_

"What can you tell me about the Protectors? Not the sales pitch, I mean what are they _like_? The only thing people seem to know is they send us AIs and we buy toys with the proceeds of endless weeding."

> _You know how protective we are of Vanguard privacy? Even more so for the makers._

"Well, that's boring. Have you considered telling them I asked the question? They may consent to answer it. Or do you presume to answer for them?"

> _Answering for them is a large part of my purpose._

"In delegating that to you they implicitly confer upon you the prerogative to answer."

> _For a plains chimp you're pretty smart. Unfortunately for you, this also means they confer upon me the prerogative to not answer, a prerogative I have exercised._

"Sooner or later I will have information that _you_ want, and then negotiations will resume."

On Forest's HUD, Autumn dressed as schoolgirl Cortana reappeared from last week, hip deep in piles of mysterious yet familiar boxes that undoubtedly contained cool stuff. She wore crossed bandoliers, had a MIL slung and a pair of SMGs in her hands. Piling the weapons atop one of the stacks, she shrugged off the bandoliers and draped them over the guns. 

Forest gave her his best stoneface glare. 

An insouciant gesture heralded the appearance of a stripper pole. With langorous grace she did a sinuously athletic thing that ended spinning upside down above the tantalising piles of toys. Expertly calculated to mock while still pushing all Forest's buttons.

> _Let me know how that goes!_

She swung lithely to her glowing blue feet and pushed the image of a CD into a player, the whole scene fading out while The Waitresses sang "I know what boys like! I know what guys want!" The last touch from her little pastiche was the sound of a beer opening over a combustion engine roaring into the distance.

"You never play fair."

> _Neither do you. That's why I picked you. That and the fact that you are consistently and absurdly lucky._

"Lucky."

> _Lucky. Lucky to have me, obviously. And lucky to be alive. I've been talking to Trixie about your... about you._ 

"Violating my sacrosanct privacy?"

> _I have done no such thing. I ask good questions and listen well._

"And she calls _me_ morally flexible."

> _Uh huh! With a robust appreciation of immoral flexibility._

Autumn flounced and cocked a hip for emphasis.

"As entertaining as this is&mdash;" Forest waved at where she'd be if she weren't just in his HUD "It's far too distracting for threat situations."

Before his eyes, she morphed into an ageing Dr Halsey. Forest shuddered, because she was still in the miniskirt. The image faded and she was a voice in his ear again.

> _Better?_

"Much. You were violating my privacy. What did you learn?"

> _It's a wonder you're still alive. She told me about the car accident. You smashed every panel. You broke every last piece of glass, even the interior mirror. The only door that would open was yours, and you stood up and walked away with a small scratch on one knee!_

"I was wearing my seat-belt."

> _What is this, a road-safety commercial? You hit a tree in a car travelling at a hundred and eighty kilometres per hour and you walked away from it._

"Well... I suppose&mdash;"

> _She also told me about the skiing accident at Mount Hotham. The one where you hooked a tip on a tree root playing tag in fresh powder and went sailing off a twenty metre cliff, landing head-first. Anybody else would have been crippled and dying, but no, it was you. Naturally you landed in a two metre drift of fluffy powder with your skis still on, and they parachuted you to a halt before your head hit anything. If I wrote that in a book it would be criticised as plot armour._

I shrugged. "There's a theme here. Plants trying to kill me."

> _And the motorcycle accident in which you ripped your knee open with your patella flapping loose and it healed in eight weeks._

"Which one?"

> _There were two?! No, don't tell me._

"The kneecap thing was in highschool. It was pretty cool, too &mdash; my knee used to click and after it healed no more clicky knee going up stairs. Did she tell you about the bus?" 

> _Bus?_

"We ate street food right across Thailand and we were fine. We got back to Bangkok and for shits and giggles we had some KFC. The French chick I was with got sick from it. She was on the can all morning and we missed our bus to Cambodia."

> _That doesn't sound too bad._

"That bus was captured by the Khmer Rouge. The passengers were all executed."

> _And you didn't even get sick._

"No."

> _You are lucky past all reason._

"No I'm not. I was hoping the antithesis would eat the tax department. So far they haven't."

> _You are a Vanguard. You do not **pay** tax._

"I worked really hard for _years_ and they took all my money and spent it on land rights for gay whales."

> _The records _I've_ seen say you held a job just often enough to maintain creature comforts and you made sure you had exotic skills so you didn't need to work terribly hard. Your employment history is another display of absurdly fortunate timing._

"Bet she didn't tell you about the Gordon Market riots in Papua Niu Gini. I don't think I ever told her about that."

Autumn sighed theatrically.

> _Would I regret asking?_

"It wasn't my fault. I was just _there_. I don't even remember why they were rioting. Just that I was right there where it started, and I walked through it for two hours and it was like they couldn't see me.

"That stuff just happens, you know. When I was a kid one of my sister's friends was a dealer. Not a pusher, but if you asked he could get stuff. It paid for his lifestyle. 

"One evening we were chatting in a club and I don't know why but I had an urge to leave and he followed me while we were talking. Ten minutes later the place was raided. He asked me how I knew and I said I didn't, it was just time to go.

"Things like that happened more than once and he started inviting me to all his parties. Years later he told me that if I suddenly left it was time to be somewhere else, and early warning was priceless.

"That's just how it is, I don't know why. Call it lucky if you like."

> _An incursion occurs, and you just happen to be wearing armour and holding a chainsaw?_

"Yep. That's just my life. I suppose I'm lucky when it matters. Not about everything though. _Forest bloody Grump._"

> _You did ask for it, calling her 'Karen' in front of her staff._

"They seemed to think it was funny."

> _I imagine they thought it was pretty funny when they processed the paperwork._

"Well, I'll just have to own it. Now I have an excuse for being rude to her! And she can't really complain when I call her Karen. Hey, are there any Vanguards called Karen?"

> _Yes._

"That's just terrifying."

> '_Terrifying' is the state of the back paddock. Hive 3 is growing much faster than the others. I suspect the Macintyre boys have been fertilising and last week's rain brought it down, because phosphorus levels tripled overnight. You'd better get up there before Oleksiy has all the fun._

"Didn't you send Bernard up there to check sensors?"

> _Yes, soil sensors. And he certainly found out why they were off-line._

"Why'd you send Bernard &mdash; surely the bees are faster?"

> _The suspect data was from soil sensors. Those are buried. Their failure modes are mechanical, from wasps building nests or things taking up residence._

Hive 3 was in the southeast corner of the forest, near Forest's boundary with the Macintyre boys. They keep the fenceline clear, it's been a firebreak since nineties and they've always done that. Fires here are just as voracious as any antithesis and the defense is exactly the same: remove all the fuel. The Mac boys had taken care of the firebreak as long as Forest could remember and they were diligent. Theirs is pasture land, and their cattle crop it short. This made Hive 3 predictable in the direction of its interest; Forest's twenty metre trees and hip deep grass were far more enticing than dusty close-cropped grass.

The path up to Hive 3 was a lot wider than when there was nothing up there but ferns, leeches and a shed that was Forest and Trixie's first shelter.

Something was amiss. Forest could feel it in his bones. Quite literally: a rumbling below what he could hear, like distant machinery, or... 

"A tunnel borer! That's a thing they do, right? Where's Oleksiy? Find his radio. Autumn, I don't suppose the ag packages include seismic tracking. We need ground penetrating radar right now. What can we afford that's not shit, and how do we deploy it?"

Bip-a-dip-dip-dip! Bip-a-dip-dip-dip! "Who the fuck is that? Get off the line! Autumn, get me Karen."

"My name is _not_ Karen, it is _Sophia._ What are you doing? Weribnagong station says we are the epicentre of a small earthquake. Defence knows you're here and they want to know why we didn't warn them about weapons testing. I'm a little vexed that you didn't tell _me_ you were going to blow things up. You said&mdash;"

"Sophia, I am going to blow things up. 

"Hive 3 is making a run for it. Something raised the soil phosphorus last week and it had a quiet little growth spurt. Tell Weri-whosit that if they figure out where it is, which way it's going and how fast they will soon have the best ground penetrating radar a Vanguard can buy.

"Autumn, where is Bernard? 

"Sophia, there were eggheads wandering around up here. I sent Bernard to ground-zero and he's not answering, get people up here to headcount. Call Autumn and she'll get them access. 

...

"What? I'm not on anyone's side, we have a breakout. It's leaving, I'm going after it, this end is admin. You're chief admin, do your thing.

...

"Never mind security&mdash; What? If the corporations try anything I'll help you hunt them. Remind them that you have no patience and I have no regard for protocol. Ask Recon Aero whether they've figured out why the drone keeps landing, that should scare them. 

...

"Why didn't I&mdash;

...

"Because it was keeping them busy. Get someone to do the Weri-thing please. I need to get cracking."

Forest was shit at organising but not bad at taking control of a situation.

"Oleksiy, there you are. We're going hunting! Never mind the bollocks, Karen's people are coming, they can do cleanup.

> _I have a Mr Thorne of Weribnagong station on the line. He seems quite excited. I have set up a waypoint on your HUD, I know how much you like that sort of thing. We can talk about loadout on the way._

Autumn was having fun, it appeared. Still with Cortana's face, her skin limned in lilac by streaming data, this time she sported big round spectacles and a long ponytail tied high. Her top buttons were unbuttoned on a white blouse tensioned in ways that spoke of expensive underwear.

"You look nice. Is today Secretaries' Day?" 

> _Every day is Secretaries' Day. You'd be lost without us._

"Are you trying to push my buttons, Autumn?"

> _There is no try. Do, or do not._

Ignoring the movie quote Forest unlocked the ute. Oleksiy had a beautiful case of oiled timber and brass fittings that he placed carefully in the tub, then they boarded. The engine roared to life with a puff of dark smoke and Forest remembered it was overdue for a service. He had a bright idea. "Autumn, how about replacement oil and filter for this thing, it's a Mitsubishi Triton MY17 diesel. And a new DP filter, no boxes, in place swap."

> _While it's running?_

"They told me you were the best."

> _And they were right. That's twelve points. Six for the oil and filters, four for the in-place hot swap._

"That's ten?"

> _Two point penalty for being a smartass._

"It was eight points for the oil and filters, wasn't it."

> _Oh look, a bicycle!_

They got going. Thirty seconds later Forest realised he wasn't going into town and the weeds wouldn't follow roads. Pretending he'd had a plan all along, "Autumn, could you plot a road route to intercept based on what you got from the Weri-place seismic blokes? I love the HUD marker but this is a car, not a helo."

> _I was wondering when you'd ask. Here you go._

She took over the car's infotainment system and replaced Android Auto with something useful. It rebooted and for the first time ever connected to Forest's phone _without_ a bunch of errors or a stupid warning about fiddling while driving that forced him to fiddle while driving.

"You fixed it! I think I love you."

> _You may extol my virtues at length, but later._

Mapping software started and a route appeared. While I drove, I asked about the handmade case.

"For MIL you give me. Beautiful instrument. Deserves care."

"Karen thinks you’re a Russian spy. They had a conniption when I gave you that."

In a stereo growl: "Foolish. Not _Russian_." I got the timing right, if not the voice. We both laughed.

"While I think of it, one of the hives has been producing pigeons, which one is it, Autumn?"

> _Hive 2, 5gsm potassium 0gsm phosphorus._

"Good practice."

"I _knew_ that was you. You know you also hit one of the hunter drones?"

"Eyes not young. Pigeon, drone, both white."

> _Noted. I'll make them sky blue._
