# Hunting Trip

> "In the midst of chaos, there is also opportunity."  
> — Sun Tzu, *The Art of War*

---

Four hours of driving and we were no closer to our quarry. Red dust coated everything. It was almost like the borer _knew_ to stay away from roads.

Weribnagong Station coordinated with Parkes and some place in coastal New South Wales to triangulate. They fed a steady stream of telemetry to Autumn, so we weren't in much danger of losing of the borer. The only way it could hide was to stay put.

The problem was it might find a farm and the nutrients it needed in fertilised fields. Or worse, in concentrated form like bags of super-phosphate, or worse yet, potassium phosphate. 

It was Forest who pointed out to Autumn that the weeds were starved of PK. That was an easy call: those are the two things you have to add if you want anything European to stop looking sick. They're rare here because the soil is old. Australia is smack-dab in the middle of a tectonic plate. The last notable geological activity was watched by dinosaurs. As a result, our mountains have worn down to low rounded things that Kiwis love to mock, and the soluble minerals like potassium and phosphates have long since washed out to sea.

There might be other soluble trace elements in short supply and right now Forest really hoped that was so. It would make the antithesis finding a silo of PK much less of a disaster.

"This is ridiculous. Remember I said this is a car, not a helicopter? Just out of curiosity, Autumn, how much would a helicopter cost? Something small with gun-mounts. You know, the sort of thing that will upset Karen."

> _16000 points for a gunship like an AH-6. It has rocket launchers and a side-mount machine gun. That will leave us with about a thousand, including your medical reserve. And the Triton, will you abandon it here?_

"Oh. Trix won't like that."

> _No._

"We could pick it up on the way back.

"That just leaves one teensy problem, I haven't flown a chopper for twenty years."

> _You flew helicopters? That's not in any public records._

"Microsoft Flight Simulator."

Oleksiy was giving Forest that look. The Ukrainian's weathered face spoke volumes.

Animated discussion broke out in a language Forest didn't know. Eventually, Autumn asked whether Forest wanted to approve his choice of helicopter.

"I thought we were getting an AH-6?"

> _Approximately, yes. But with characteristics and instrumentation to suit your fully trained pilot._

Forest was thoroughly nonplussed by this. He wanted a helicopter to play with. This was going to cost a _lot_ and the dials weren't even going to be in a sensible alphabet.

> _You look sad. Don't worry, there will be things to blow up, soon._

Forest continued to mope. She pointed out that she could put all the instruments on his HUD in English. It was reasonable, but the fact was he had just bought an attack helicopter, and he wouldn't get to fly it.

> _Remember how upset Sophia was when you gave a rocket launcher to a "Russian"? Imagine how she'll react when she finds out you gave him an attack helicopter._

Wicked glee flickered across Forest's face before concern replaced it. Sophia might actually burst something.

"Couple of points. First, give it a glass cockpit so we can change the display language before we get home. As hilarious as the idea is, I don't need her genuinely believing I'm an irresponsible fool and a threat to civilisation.

"Second, when we're done chasing this thing I want some lessons from you two. Enough to be at the controls when we get home. Surely it can't be _that_ hard to fly, I do have _some_ experience."

"Third, you promised me a rocket launcher."

> _That's on the AH-6. This is the nearest Russian equivalent. It's somewhat bigger and much faster. The Mil Mi-24 "Galya" sports an integrated 12.7mm Yak-B Gatling, a 30mm GSh-30K twin-barrel fixed cannon and three external hard-points. It's bigger than the AH-6. Ordnance options include machine-gun pods, anti-tank guided missiles and rocket pods. One variant has a grenade launcher on a slide-out gunner's perch. Tricky to aim, but it makes a cool FOOOMP sound when you fire._

Stereo growl: "Not Russian!"

> _Settle, boys - the helicopter is Russian. Oleksiy is not; I am aware._

"Does it have a PA system? Can we fit one?"

> _No, and yes of course. But why?_

"We need a recording of _'Ride of the Valkyries,'_ it's traditional.

After a discernible pause, Autumn seemed amused.

> _Should I address you as LT then? Just for today._

"Sure, why not."

We mounted up. It wasn't as simple as boarding. Oleksiy had Forest stand and peer over his shoulder for his first lesson. Forest couldn't read the Cyrillic script, but Autumn overlaid translations for him, as Oleksiy pointed out the instruments and gave a running commentary. 

It was the most words Forest had ever heard out of him. The sequence of pre-flight checks had the air of ritual, and Oleksiy's manner was oddly reassuring. It didn't stop at airworthiness. There were fuel checks, water contamination checks, control surface checks, dog checks, weapons checks, targeting system checks, munitions inventory, a rapid fire call and response between Oleksiy and Autumn that was almost theatrical.

Weapon systems were activated, armed and made safe again. There was so _much_ of it that Forest realised it was just as well that Oleksiy was pilot in command.

A small engine started easily and rose to a steady hum. He flicked a switch and after thirty seconds a lamp went from red to green and he flicked two more. A rising whine shook the airframe as the rotors spun up. The vibration climbed through Forest's bones. He pushed the throttle forward and caressed the collective, and we were away, roaring into the heavens in a hydrocarbon fuelled nightmare of destruction.

"You didn't do the weight and balance thing!"

Another Slavic look. This one had decades of tactical patience behind it.

"You checked everything _else_."

"Handbag heavy?"

"What?"

"Weight and balance by engineer. Is not passenger jet with two hundreds of women pretending bag is light."

We'd been driving for four hours but never in a straight line toward our target, and certainly not at 250km per hour. The Galya was a monster with two turbines producing four and a half thousand horsepower, so it took a mere thirty minutes to reach our destination. This came at a price; it was thirsty. The range of one of these things is about 450km. They obviously weren't going home without refuelling. Forest said so, and Autumn pointed out he could order more fuel when the time came. 

> _Directly into the fuel tanks. We could even do it in the air, just be ready for the extra weight._

"Is cheating," intoned Oleksiy. He looked at Forest. "Cheat more."

Autumn had the target waypoint on Forest's HUD. The diamond marker turned into a triangle pointing down as the range dropped below a klick and the units changed to metres. Below, a battered fence bordered dry brown pasture with scattered trees. Heat shimmer rose from sun-baked earth. The pasture undulated up to a granite monolith, the sort that turns into a national park when someone finds mud fingerpaintings of animals (which is why farmers who find that sort of thing promptly scrub it off). Oleksiy brought them down to sixty metres and orbited the location in a tight turn, washing off speed.

We were about to set down when the engines roared and the craft lurched sideways as Autumn took control and yanked them aside. Talons screeched down the heavily armoured side of the cockpit but found no purchase, breaking off an eWar antenna. Oleksiy slapped a button and clouds of bees flung into the air from modified chaffers, building them local telemetry and networking. So far nothing jammed regular radio. No doubt that would start, but the swarm uses numbers and point to point to be nearly impervious to interference.

> _You need a catalogue and some software for this but right now I'll take care of it._

In Forest's HUD a head appeared, facing the same way he faced and surrounded by markers in 3D, with ranges and velocity picked out. "Incoming, seven o'clock high!" Forest hoped Oleksiy knew what that meant and took over the Gatling controls. He did; they lurched and came about. 

The biggest murder-pigeon Forest had ever seen was almost in his sight. Autumn put a reticule in his HUD with a lead indicator. Easing it over the pigeon Forest squeezed the trigger and watched it explode in a spray of gore, two halves tumbling from the sky. Blood and ...something else... misted the canopy. Three more of them stooped together but the lead indicator made it easy to hose them out of the sky with sweeps of hurtling lead.

They tried to set down again and once more thrust shoved them crabwise out of harm's way. This time a vast flock of the small ones poured out of a hole concealed by long brown grass. The Galya may have armour, but turbines still have intakes; Oleksiy didn't want his new toy brought down by birdstrike. They're worth one lousy point each but a swarm like that was _made_ for spray and pray. There's a reason they call this thing a bullet hose, and that's what Forest did: hose them down and rain on their parade. The Gatling has four rotating barrels to spread the heat. It belongs in an episode of the A-team. Dakka dakka dakka dakka...

The gun bucked against its mounts. Brass casings showered the cockpit.

It was fun. Autumn remembered Forest's music, too.

Their third attempt at landfall was a bit further and a depressing amount of downhill from the way-point... which had moved, but not much. Out came the oiled timber case. With a snak-snak of brass clasps, out came the MIL. Forest had his trusty Trenchmaker strapped to one leg and a new toy to try out.

Out came another case, this one sleek and black with reinforced edges. With a hiss of pressurised seals, the lid popped open to reveal a Pyrothorn, purpose-built for botanical annihilation. The love-child of a flamethrower and a fancy paintball gun, with a translucent reservoir slung under the barrel, filled with a viscous, glowing orange gel.

According to Autumn, the Pyrothorn didn’t just burn plants. It corrosively destabilised their cellular structure, jollied along by intense heat. The gel was a cocktail of incendiary compounds and enzymes that broke down cellulose and chlorophyll, turning even the hardiest weed into a smouldering pile of ash. A quick burst from the Pyrothorn would stick to a target, ignite on contact with air, and spread like, well, wildfire. 

It had two firing modes: Stream and Cream for precision shots or Spray and Pray for target-rich environments. Best of all, the compressor gave it an ominous hum. Forest hefted it, feeling the weight. The gel sloshed faintly in its reservoir. A small display on the side showed the remaining fuel and a warning: "CAUTION: EXTREME HEAT."

"Autumn?"

> _Yes?_

"Why has this got a nun on the side?"

"After fire, nun left?" That was Oleksiy.

Forest decided that knowing wasn't worth encouraging them.

Climbing out of the double-bubble Forest all but stood on the NO STEP marker, because what it actually said was НЕ СТУПАТЬ. Fortunately, there is something about a blocky yellow stencil that transcends the written word; the ghosts of a hundred sergeants glared out from the yellow paint, daring him to put a foot wrong, and instead he basically fell out of the cockpit and clipped his funny bone on a missile tip.

Nursing his elbow while making anguished noises, Forest watched Oleksiy hang a short ladder and hook his boots around it, slide down halfway then deftly slow his fall with one hand. Practised moves. The ladder looked like it unfolded to reach the ground, but he hadn't bothered. Rising to gather the tattered remnants of his dignity, Forest took two steps and found it was his turn to be cool calm and collected. A dog-weed, larger, heavier and much faster than the ones he faced that first, fateful day. It barrelled up in Oleksiy's blind spot, triple jaw hinged wide. Up came the Trenchmaker, and with a roar of alien violence half of its head spiralled away.

Physics being the unsympathetic old bitch that she is, the body kept going. It knocked Oleksiy into a tumble. The old man was spry, rolling to a low crouch and sweeping up his weapon. He paused on a knee, nodding to father time. Groaning to his feet and already scanning for threats, he located Forest and faced away.

They put down four more dog weeds. The Trenchmaker carved up three. Forest gave his victims a squirt from the nun-blaster, to prevent regrowth. Yes, the nun-blaster. Who's going to call it a Pyrothorn when _clearly_ it's a gel-blaster with a nun on the side?

"Oleksiy, I only heard one shot. What have you got in that thing?"

"Autumn give me HE rounds to fit AK. Very nice."

"Autumn, obviously I don't mind, but what happened to needing approval?"

> _This is project cleanup. You already authorised that._

"Oh. Good... Not now, but can that extend to other employee benefits?"

> _Possibly. We can talk about it._

"Right now I'm thinking of death benefits if we manage to make Sissi a widow. OK, they came around the bluff. I'd say it's uphill from here. What do you think, Oleksiy?"

> _You do know I have the bees, right?_

A wireframe appeared in Forest's HUD, showing the entire hilltop and bluff, with little Lego versions of them. Forest picked one up (you can do that with this HUD, it's nifty) and it grew in his hand as he lifted it for inspection. It had a dunce hat. He chose not to dignify the slur. Opening his hand, Lego Forest snapped back into the map. He leaned in to examine the terrain in detail. 

A gigantic hydra thing roared out of the wireframe hillside. Forest jumped back, weapon swinging up to face the... much less alarming reality.

> _Gotcha!_

