# A Right Pickle

> So help me, cod.<br>
> — Forest

---

Scott was very pleased with his haul. 

The Christmas before, Miss Priya convinced Forest to try putting spangled perch in with the Murray cod. 

"What have you got against spangled perch?" Forest had said. "I'm not sure we should let anything smaller than _you_ swim in that water, until I fish the last of the cod out."

The cod were the most successful fish disaster since tilapia, but native. Forest assumed that since they were on the approved list they were a good idea. Apex predators, it was a wonder the damn things didn't eat the ducks. They probably _did_ eat the ducklings. The only things that survived in the same dam were the blueclaws, and that was only because they were fast, armoured, randy little buggers.

But Priya was always right when it came to fish, so he tried it. And the cod grew fat, but the perch bred like mosquitos. Sure enough, the girl was right. And then Forest caught the big one, triumphantly filleting it and scarfing fat, oily fillets grilled on open flame with big, crunchy oversalted chips that gave him gas but were too delicious not to eat.

If there was another cod in there, it wasn't the monster, and the number and size of spangled perch boomed. The only problem was they weren't the best table fish. The _flavour_ was fine, but they were full of fine bones that were hard to see and harder to remove.

Ken dropped over to share a glass one afternoon and mentioned it to Forest. 

"He was so disappointed, but what can you do? I told him that it's a whole ecology in there, and not all of it is directly edible. He's a good lad, he listens and he thinks. He's been using them to bait the crays."

Forest grinned that big, goofy, shit-eating I've-got-a-plan grin and filled their mugs, leaning back. Ken sensed the switch to tales-of-my-youth and settled to listen.

"I used to love fishing with my dad. One afternoon I was fishing off the back of his big boat."

"How many boats did he have?"

"Two, at that point. A fourteen foot tinny and the big one, forty-five tonne displacement."

Ken blinked. That wasn't a powerboat. It sounded like a trawler. A large one.

Forest read his face and said "Floating restaurant. Three hulls, shallow draft. Anyhow, I caught this weird fish I didn't recognise. Some of his trawler operator mates were aboard that afternoon and they told me it was a 'shad'. Rubbish fish, they said. Too bony. Can't sell em.

"When the cruise was over and the passengers gone, dad took me aside and said 'You like roll-mops.' It wasn't a question, I did. He made them from time to time and I always loved eating them. So we got everything we needed from the restaurant supplies, rock salt, cloves, peppercorns, olives and some fine table salt. I scaled and cleaned it, cut fillets. Bream too, the shad wasn't the only thing I caught. We washed the fillets in brine and rubbed more salt into them, rolled 'em up and stuck 'em with toothpicks."

Forest pulled on his mead and leaned back again, the distant light of the world's morning in his eyes. Ken said nothng. He was good at that, and Forest was often worth listening to, even if he did ramble.

"The old man found an industrial pickle jar that was nearly empty and we scooped out the pickles, julienned them and used them in the rolls. I might have told this a bit out of order, but anyway we kept the pickle vinegar and covered the bottom with rock salt. Stacked the mops around the jar till the layer was complete. Then we covered that with more rock salt, and cloves and pepper and even a bit of cinnamon. Then we did it again. And again, and then the jar was full so we added vinegar till all the fish was covered, and closed it, and put it in a cool dark cupboard for a fortnight."

He sat up and looked at Ken.

"What do you reckon happens to fishbones in vinegar, Ken?"

A grin spread across Ken's face. He wasn't as uneducated as his manner suggested.

"They dissolve?"

"Bingo. It's dead easy to do, just make sure you get all the scales off, or they'll float off in the jar. Don't skin the fillets, without the skin the mops'll start to disintegrate. Pickles, olives, spices, whatever you think will suit his palate."

---

The next time he had scheduled down-time, certain that only the most dire of emergencies would call him to serve, Ken and Scott took their kit down to the dam with the spotted perch. 

"Why are we _here_, dad? These ones aren't good eating."

"Aren't they?"

Ken had cheerful mischief all over his face. It was infectious and Scott couldn't wait for his dad to share whatever he'd discovered. 

With plenty to eat and the monster from the deep long since converted to fish and chips, the little devils were fat and fearless, and the morning netted them a baker's dozen.

Ken set up a trestle table with a tub of water from the dam, and cracked the esky. For the first time in Scott's life it didn't contain beer. There was lots of ice, as usual, but also big jars and a huge bottle of vinegar. They set up and industriously cleaned the fish. Ken was pretty handy with a knife, but he was proud to discover that his son wielded a filleting knife like a surgeon late for golf.

Rinsing the tub and refreshing the water further down where they hadn't disturbed, Ken staggered back with it and set it on the table. 

"Right, let's mop this up."

Scott recognised that special tone of voice used only for delivering a dad-joke and smiled, even though he didn't get it. Ken laid out two clean cutting boards and a jar of toothpicks, the fancy kind that are thicker with a point.

"Lets do this together. Grab a fillet and some salt." He opened a container of cooking salt and dumped a pile on the corner of each board. Make sure your hands are clean first. Give 'em a wash." 

They went together, coming back to wave off the flies and get started. 

"Rub the salt into the fish, not the skin side. No, don't skin it. That's it boy, good job. Nice and even. Now, Spices. We have pepper, cinnamon and cloves. You don't have to use 'em but these are what Forest suggested so I reckon we should do a few of each and give 'em a whirl, what do you reckon?"

Scott nodded enthusiastically, sprinkling liberally. "Now what?"

"Now we roll it up and pin it." He demonstrated, deftly rolling the fish into a tight cylinder and spearing it, glad for the practice up at Forest's place. His first attempt had _not_ been elegant.

Scott had a couple of tries, and finally he rolled and held it while Ken pinned it for him.

"Nice work, lad. Let's do some more, but first we put them in here." He poured rock salt into the bottom of a huge pickle jar and added some vinegar, placing his rollmop on its side and Scott's beside, the lid sitting on loose to keep the flies out.

On they worked, side by side for an hour, Scott's efforts getting firmer and faster. He also took over placing them in the jar, his small hands and nimble fingers well suited to the task. More rock salt and spices between layers. Halfway through the second layer Ken remembered he brought gherkins, and they wound around chunks of those. Then the jar was full. The last layer of salt went on, and they topped up the vinegar and closed it tight.

It took a while to wash the stink of fish guts off, and pack all their kit. Finally they walked home. Walking home together in silence wasn't new, but this time it was warm and companionable. Scott couldn't look at his dad. He didn't want him to see the glistening emotion in his eyes.

When they got home his mum was in the kitchen getting a drink of water. Ken deposited the esky on the table and nodded toward it with a conspiratorial wink to Scott, who fished out their creation and proudly showed it to her, a torrent of happy explanation of rollmops and the chemistry of food preservation. The irony was completely lost on him of telling this sort of thing to a founding member of the range mothers, latter-day world champions of grow it yourself, and she made no move to spoil the moment, listening intently and nodding sagely at every step. Ken put his hand on her shoulder, kissed her cheek and wandered outside with a stubbie.

"Would you like a ginger beer, Scott?"

In the fridge she found only five and the smile already on her face spread wide. 

"Come on then," she said, opening the sliding screen door and stepping out of the the tiny demountable home onto the covered deck. Scott closed the door behind them. His mother handed him a cold ginger beer and startled both of them by sliding into Ken's lap and kissing his stubbled cheek.

"It's good to have you back."

Ken sniffed. He put his arms around her and clasped his fingers. With a bemused look on his face he replied.

"It's good to be back." He got a thoughtful look on his face. "A better place..."

"You like it here, babe?" he asked her.

"You know I do. It's funny, when we came here it was, I thought it was awful. Like a caravan park in the arse end of nowhere. But now I don't like leaving. And when I went into Brisbane to see mum... I never realised how much cities _smell._ Not fart stinky, more like car fumes. And everyone's rushing to places they don't want to be. People aren't _bad,_ they just don't have time to be friends."

She sighed. "Yes, I like it here. Why?"

"I think we should build a home."

"Build a house?"

"Build a home."

She kissed him again, this time on the lips, and leaned back against his chest, eyes closed.

"Who are you and what have you done with my parents?" deadpanned Scott, in a passable imitation of Forest. He took a pull on his ginger beer and sat against the wall beside them.

"Guess we're going to do a lot of bushwalking then."

"Bushwalking, Ken?"

"Pick a site."

"I thought all this land was privately owned."

"It is." Air-quotes went up either side of his girl and in a mock Forest voice, "I am the Lord of this land, holding title in Fee Simple". 

She giggled.

"He and Oleksi and the pig lady and that old feller, Brian. And Gerry, you know the feller who does the lawns here, him. Between 'em it's about five hundred acres. At one point most of it belonged to Oleksiy and Gerry, but Oleksiy sold some off, who knows why that man does what he does but I'm glad he did because here we are. I quote 'Find a good spot, tell me where you want and I'll tell you whether you can build there.'"

"What about the council?"

Ken actually roared with laughter. When he got control of himself again, "I would _love_ to watch a council try to tell a Vanguard he can't build a house on his own land. Especially one who's well liked."

"You, buster, are not a Vanguard." She poked him in the chest. Her tone was stern but her face gave it away.

His face got silly. "I know a guy who is." Then his straight face said "Actually I know three of them. Being on the ground team has advantages." He flipped up the storage bench beside them and pulled out his webbing, extracting the medkit, tossing and catching it. "When we did the joint exercise at Dalveen with the SES, you should have seen their faces when we did a kit check and they saw the nanite inhalers. I almost felt guilty."

"What's the significance of it?" She took the kit out of his hand and opened it, looking at the inhaler in its bag.

"Those things are why it's so hard to kill Vanguard. They snort one of them and grow a new lung. After we lost that lad, Forest got real bent out of shape for a few days and then Eric and Sophia turned up with a wheelbarrow full of this stuff. She reckons all he said was, 'No more body bags.'"

"That was good of him."

"You're not kidding. If I sold this thing we could buy a house in the city with cash. A small place, not too flash." he amended. "There were a few other goodies, all things to mitigate casualties. But the nanites are," he searched for words, "Not even special forces get kit like this. She never talks about it but I gather the boss got a lot of heat when she wouldn't bag em up and hand em over."

"Why didn't she?"

"Officially? 'The Vanguard in question gave them directly to the individuals on the fire team as an apology for failing to arrive in time resulting in the death of one of the team members.'"

She grinned. "And the real reason?"

"I reckon she didn't like their attitude. Best boss ever," he said, with genuine affection. Then he remembered they had an audience and looked down to Scott. 

"I know you aren't silly, just checking, you know not to tell people we have this kind of thing, right?"

"Yes, dad. But everyone who goes to the range knows about inhalers, Oleksiy has two of them in the range medicine cabinet. He made us learn where it is and how to use one. I can't think of anyone I talk to who wouldn't already know, but yeah, don't mention it to strangers. I get it. People who don't live here have weird values, they'd rather have money than a second chance."

"Figures," said his mum. "Safety safety safety, that's our superspy." She squirmed against Ken, hand diving into his pocket and pulling out the hard lump of his issue small arm. "I _know_ you're glad to see me, but really?"
