# Boot Sequence

> Fail to plan, plan to fail.<br>
> &mdash; every sergeant ever.

A time came when a bloke had had enough. He wasn't the sort to tell others how to live, just wanted to be left alone to do his own thing. His partner was convinced everything was a dastardly plot by rich weirdos, and there was probably a fair bit of that going on but he didn't care so long as they left him alone.

But they wouldn't. More and more rules, more and more enforcement. It was obnoxious, and it was suffocating, so he left. They had a property thirty kilometres out of town, but that was nowhere _near_ far enough away from the busybodies, so the two of them looked for water, and elevation, and trees, not so far from a small town that there was nothing, but far, _far_ from the madding crowd.

And eventually they found a valley, a little more than two hundred kilometres away from the city. High in the Great Dividing Range, where the air is cool and clear. 

There was a town, nearby. By road it was perhaps half an hour. They loved the road; forgotten by the bureacrats, unsigned and unregulated. Technically the speed limit was 100km/h, since there were no houses or street lamps or signage. Actually going that fast would be crazy, but being able to make up his own damn mind about what was a safe speed put a big smile of his dial.

The town had a post office, as towns often do. It was red-brick, exactly the colour of the subsoil, because that's what it was. Red clay laced with decomposed granite. Pressed by hand and fired on site, stacked and racked and mortared in place by people who never in their lives used the word veneer to describe a building. There was no K-mart. There was no Bunnings, only a sprawling hardware place run by the same family for generations, selling stockfeed and chainsaw parts, and barbed wire on huge spools that went on a special trailer. 

But it was far from the grandest building. That honour, in line with tradition, went to the pub.

The pub had a beer garden. It reeked of smoke. Despite the stink he approved. Not the smoking, the fact that people were doing it and no one was giving them a hard time about it. He'd smoked himself for twenty years, continuing mostly because people kept telling him to stop. Eventually they gave up, and one day he saw an ad on television for a week skiing for the same amount he was spending on tobacco. A choice was made &mdash; he _loved_ skiing &mdash; and because it was his _own_ decision that was that and he never smoked again.

---

There was so much to do. It didn't help that nine-to-five he was obliged to do his day job, a rare 'remote' role. His employer hadn't been quite ready for this version of 'remote'. Power came from a trailer covered in solar panels and batteries and the coordinating electronics. Data was thanks to Starlink. Which was expensive compared to suburban fibre, but what price freedom?

They argued about money. They always argued about money. He put it beyond argument by simply buying the mill, which was a jerk move or manly confidence depending on the woman opining.

He didn't care. His mistakes were his own and the math was unarguable. Even at an implausible ten bucks a post, three kilometres of fence was 1250 x 10 or twelve thousand dollars. The mill was fifteen, and hardwood posts were _not_ ten bucks a pop. More like thirty. There would be a learning curve, no doubt, but fence posts were a good way to learn and _after_ that, his dreams of ten inch beams vaulting overhead were subject only to sweat and imagination.

Oleksiy was good company, and fun. His choices weren't the same but they could speak the same language; he had the same contempt for authority and the same love of making. He was generous with his help and encouraging, and sometimes came to play with wonderful toys like the mill. They built an open shed of green timber because that's what they had, then put lumber under it to season, slowly growing mountains of stacked beams. All of them far too large; Oleksiy's advice was to let them season in large pieces to limit warping, them trim them and make dimensional lumber.

Sometimes they shot together. He was a passable shot and not afraid of recoil, but Oleksiy was a past master and happy to indulge a keen student. The rising slope behind the old man's shed became the backstop for a private range.

Over a beer one day he asked where the old man learnt to shoot like that, and after an appraising stare, said that Oleksiy didn't have to tell if he couldn't say; he'd been in signals himself and had things he couldn't discuss. He said he really didn't care if Oleksiy was a retired fucking assassin, it was all the same to him. The old man roared with laughter, disproportionately amused. He rose and fetched vodka and shot glasses, and laid it out for him. They both laughed then, at the absurdity of life.

Neither of them went into town much, and they went into town a lot, the old man's fondness for pizza and the endless demand for building hardware forcing them to grit their teeth and go near people. An it wasn't so bad, there were echoes of the city but only echoes. There _was_ a Dominoes Pizza but opposite that was a chinese fish and chip shop that did just as big a trade and made fantastic burgers. They weren't cheap but they weren't any _more_ expensive than Macdonalds &mdash; sadly there _was_ one of those but it was on the other side of town on the highway. The same price, but the burgers were everything the big chain promised and failed to deliver. As big as they looked in the pictures, overflowing with filling, hot and fresh and tasty. A little bit _too_ good, really. Lucky they required a drive into town.

The old man had certainly picked his spot. Water was abundant on his land. Had he been less generous it might have inspired envy. But dams were slowly becoming real, cut and filled in ponds cascading down natural gullies. Completely in the face of regulatory wisdom, this was. But they understood why the regulations were as they were, and built accordingly. The berms were wide and reinforced in depth with vetiver. There was no spillway, and certainly the dam would soften when overflowing, but it wouldn't wash out or breach. It was _designed_ to overflow.

They never thought about it, but they were giving a new meaning to permaculture.

