# When the sky falls

Unlike the northern hemisphere, Australia handles antithesis pretty well. Everything there is tough as old boots and trying to kill ... everyone and everything. Including the plants. Forest had a shed full of weedkiller the missus wouldn't let him use since she put on a tinfoil hat and started growing organic produce. She was right about greedy corporations and regulatory capture, but weeds were still a nuisance. Anyhow, Forest was in his forest walking back from felling a tree that threatened the caravan (he hadn't built the cabin yet) when it started raining dog weeds and killer pigeons. Because he didn't have enough things that wanted to eat him.

His chainsaw started. It always did. If anyone found that hard to believe, they didn't use a chainsaw very often. A chainsaw left idle must be emptied of fuel and run dry. Otherwise evaporating fuel varnishes the inside of the carb making it hard to start. It's not complicated.

It was a big chainsaw, six horsepower with a two foot blade. Chainsaws are measured in prehistoric units because Americans apparently can't cope with base ten unless it's money. One of the dog weeds tried to bite Forest's leg. Fortunately, he was wearing chaps. Bright orange, heavily padded ones, not the kinky leather sort. For preventing unscheduled leg removal by chainsaw.

Then a murderpigeon literally bit him on his unpadded arse, like a creepy alien mother-in-law. Grabbing it with one gloved hand, Forest expressed his displeasure using its head, a tree and maximum force. 

Two of the dog weeds were ruining the screen door of the caravan and Forest knew for a fact that the only weapon his wife had in there was a cast iron frying pan. She could probably take care of them in the natural chokepoint of the doorway but Forest just _knew_ it would be his fault there was plant goop on the carpet. 

So he metaphorically tiptoed up with a nice big serving of Chainsaw Surprise and explained to them whose forest it was. Shutting off the chainsaw didn't stop the racket; there were more under the caravan. Forest backed off, and with some distance between him and them, the saw started first pull (hot) but sputtered. Bloody thing was out of fuel. Good thing a machete hung from his belt. After a bit of a struggle both of the dogweeds were wary and three legged.

Bless her, his wife had left the hedge trimmer out with a battery in it! Dropping the machete back on its belt hook, Forest lunged with the hedger and soon enough one was legless and the other bolted. He started to limp because his arse hurt like he'd passed out face down at a mardi gras. Boots felt wet so he was probably bleeding.

"Are you alright out there?" his wife called.

"You _said_ living in a forest would bite me on the arse. Hurts like the billy-o and I'll get you to clean it up but first I need to mix chainsaw fuel and go make sure Brian and his missus are alright."

> _That won't be necessary._

A voice from Forest's fondest video game fantasies purred in one ear. He spun left but no-one was there. Confusion reigned over a head full of dizziness and ice cubes.

> _System Initialised!_
>
> _Congratulations. Through your actions you have proven yourself worthy of blah blah blah, god this is boring, who writes this shit?_

> _OK, you're a defender of humanity. I am Myxoma, and not entirely happy about that, but we have more pressing matters. Would you like a Class I basic medical catalogue and a Woundstop? And something like the chaps but going all the way around?_

"I have questions. And sympathy. I take it you didn't pick the name," Forest replied.

Against all common sense, his wife was out of the caravan clutching antiseptic and cotton wool. Merciless and with scant regard for his squirming attempts to flee, she poured it on the bleeding wound. 

"Wuuuaaargh!" Forest exclaimed, eloquent in antiseptic anguish. He tried to distract her by handing over the machete. It didn't work.

> _Do you wish to purchase the catalogue and the Woundstop?_

"Yes, dammit! Bloody hell, that stings!" A box materialised on the ground beside them. His wife, ever quicker on the uptake than Forest, figured it out in an instant. "How do I use this? Oh, there's instructions on the lid," she said, jabbing him brutally in the butt and activating it.

> _Ask your questions._

"Why do you sound like Jen Taylor?" Forest asked.

> _I know all about you, Chief. You were already in the habit of taking advice from the voice in your helmet._

"I don't _have_ a helmet."

> _Not yet. But you do have 73 points left and some neighbours to rescue. Shall we?_

Five points, fresh socks and a pair of padded pants later, Forest and his missus were on their way to the Brian's place. Forest took the Troopie because it was a couple of kilometres uphill. On the way he cleaned up a model three with the bullbar and backed over it a couple of times to be sure, so there were certainly more of them. Brian and his partner were in the big woodshed. This early in the season it was full and the walls were effectively almost a metre of solid wood that Brian was defending with his axe. Fairly successfully, but he was coming up on 80 so Forest was still glad to have arrived. En route Myx got Forest one of those disposable Hummingbird pistols and it made short work of cleaning up the roaming weeds. Nifty little handheld disposable micro-missile launcher thing. Forest gave it to Brian and got another one. The three of them patrolled the house fence without incident so Forest turned to leave them safe and adequately armed, heading back to his own property.

> _If you're going to leave them here then I suggest some anti-Seven pills._

"Roger," Forest said, leaning into his Cortana fantasy. "Do it."

> _Certainly. But please stop calling me Roger._

A small cardboard box fell to the ground. It could have come from any pharmacy, complete with a crooked label that read "Take one (1) tablet every 24hrs for the duration of Model Seven exposure or suspected exposure." Forest gave them to Brian's partner. "If you see little worm things like a giant leech with a feather, take one of these each. Cortana, Brian is eighty. He takes heart pills. Is this stuff going to hurt him?"

"Cortana" sounded very amused, her voice tinny out of the ancient digital clock radio in their kitchen.

> _Not as much as a Model Seven would. "Cortana"?_

"Oh. Er. Ah." Forest thought fast. "It's better than 'rabbit pox' which is what Myxoma means."

> _I'm winding you up. It's fine. It's fun, "Chief". And I was aware of the word's meaning. I did say I wasn't happy about it._

Familiar music played, distorted through the horrible speaker.

> _Let's show 'em who they're dealing with!_

Forest said nothing but couldn't stop smiling, and Myxoma knew it.
