# Getting Started

> "I started by reading all the manuals."  
> &mdash; no software user ever

---

"How much help can you give me?"

> _Could you be more specific? It depends on how many points and tokens you have._

"For starters you could tell me what that means. But I won't remember it the first thirty times, my short term memory is rubbish. What I need is constant reminding, which will annoy me, and books. I want a primer, a getting-started, a historical perspective on strategies and tactics and how effective they were. And something with profitability analyses of approaches, or better yet the Janet and John version with a top ten."

> _That's... not the usual starting point. I have 38927 matching works. 927 are translatable. You can't have the historical perspectives or the profitability analyses because they're all in a Class VII catalogue. There's a book on game theory applications that was written here on Earth by the Chessmaster but it's rather abstract. And there's a Janet and John with a top Sixty but it's ... marked as not for sale. There's no getting-started because that's part of my purpose._

"_Quelle surprise!_ So we'll be playing guessing games. I'll formulate a bunch of strategies and you'll critique their likely effectiveness, profitability and dependencies, and then we can plan a shortest path with contingencies. 

> _You're not really a risk-taker, are you._

"I thought you knew all about me."

> _Quite. Has it crossed your mind that this much planning makes you very predictable?_

"How long do most plans survive contact with the enemy?"

> _Minutes. So you don't really want a plan, you want a general strategy and a bunch of tactics for scenarios. Then when the shit hits the fan you'll throw it all out the window and wing it just like every other Vanguard._

"Something like that. But things will quiet down again and then we go back to the master plan."

> _I know you won't like "Chief" or "Spartan" so how abou&mdash;"_

"It's fun inside my head but if you try to Halo theme me... Look, it's already a brand, it belongs to a company. I may have an inner child but twelve was some time ago. I would like people to, I think, um, don't you think from time to time we'll need people to take me seriously? If I let you have your way I'll end up with a stupid name like 'Gameboy'."

> _...so how about "Tacticus"? From those Pratchett books you love so much? I know they're important to you. You carted a complete collection of paperbacks all the way out here. Some of them first editions, I note._

"Maybe." Silence reigned, bar the creaking of suspension, as the car lurched down four hundred metres of winding and heavily eroded driveway to the track along the creek. The creek, unsurprisingly, runs along the bottom of the valley. Probably it _made_ the valley, in geological ages past. 

"Still a bit pretentious. And if I do happen to end up Halo themed by circumstances that totally had nothing to do with you, I will buy a Halo themed drone and make you introduce yourself as 343 Guilty Spark. And do the voice. And the 'hmm-ha-hmmmm, I am a genius.' thing." After a few minutes of silence I turned up our own road and spoke again. "I can hear you grinning. Stop it. That was a threat, not an offer. I'd like to point out that if you're Guilty Spark you'll never get to say 'Thanks for the tank, sergeant. _He_ never gets me anything.'"

> _...So we're going with a Halo theme then?_

"No."

> _Noble Six?_

"I- Begone, foul temptress! I suppose you think you're going to be Noble Actual?" We were almost home. The valley road was in much better condition and it wasn't far.

> _Well..._

"Careful, you might end up as 'Siri'. Anyway, I've decided. I'm going to call you Autumn. As for branding, when there's enough points you're going to get me a new lumberjacket, a nice armoured one. Red-check, same as this. Waterproof. And leech repellent, fuck I hate leeches." I'd been out of the car for six paces and already I'd stopped one climbing my leg.

"I'm back! I see we need a new screen on the door. Autumn, can I afford anything that will get that stuff out of the carpet?" A very domestic looking spray bottle appeared on the galley bench.

> _69 points remain. It's not a lot, and there's no doubt more of them munching on your forest. Shall we go hunting? I'd suggest a recon drone but we lack the budget._ 

"Put the kettle on, darl? I'll be back shortly, I'm just going to pull some weeds." There was no answer, which was a mild worry. I trotted down to the food garden and sure enough there she was defending it. Because in twenty hectares of forest, of _course_ the first thing they wanted to eat was the herbs and greens. "Another one of these Hummingbirds, please." Autumn obliged. A couple of potshots and Her Majesty was no longer frantically swinging my old cricket bat. "Here, use this instead."

"How do I reload it? There's no sight."

"Tap the side to turn on the laser dot. You don't load it, it's cheap because it's disposable. I'll give you something better when I have the budget. "

"Good. You can start by going up to the high creek and stop them eating my citrus."

On the way I saw a cane toad and a murderpigeon trying to eat each other at the same time. More leeches tried their luck but I repelled boarders. I wistfully imagined a bounty for killing them. Autumn snickered in my head. It's alright for her, they can't get to her. So gross.

The aforementioned citrus trees were quite well defended by chickenwire enclosures around star pickets, designed to keep wallabies and rabbits out. Steel wire has enormous tensile strength. Chickenwire is too thin and flexible to chew through it and claws just stretch it elastically. Four trees, partly gnawed, and five entangled and very frustrated... I didn't know what they were. Weeds. Phut phut phut phut phut, five ex weeds. The Hummingbird was a marvellous toy.

> _Stop looking so smug, it won't always be this easy._

A horrendous squealing and a racket through the undergrowth heralded the arrival of an angry sow pursuing a number... five? fleeing with a dead piglet. Straight up a tree I went before she decided I was involved. Sows are terrifying. Half a tonne of angry motherhood, now with extra tusk. Those and brown snakes are the only things in the bush scarier than me.

"How are we for points now?"

> _107, 112... When the piggie leaves we'd better give your partner two more Hummingbirds. And warn her to conserve ammunition. Or bring her with us._

On the way back down to the caravan we looked at options. "What if we put a chickenwire shroud, a double shroud, around under the caravan? The fancy kind with plastic over the gal so it's harder for them to dissolve. That should keep them out from underneath it. And a new door. Or new screen."

> _Sure, why not. There's only three kinds of antithesis._

There were a _lot_ more kinds of antithesis. Many of them much larger and scarier. "TRIX!" I bellowed, "YOU'RE COMING WITH ME! COME ON. WE'RE GOING."

"No, my plants will get eaten."

"Yes. And I don't want you to join them so you're staying with me where I can reload you. It's that or the fire shelter. Autumn, can I secure that on the current budget? It's a 5mm steel box with grilled vents in a metre of concrete. Can we give her a fridge full of food and drink with something to power it for at least two days in a confined space?"

> _For 90 points you can have a stocked minibar with integrated arc reactor, operational lifespan approximately 200 solar years. For 5 points I can put a hardened cage around the whole thing and 1 more point for a battery grinder with a cutting wheel so she can get out again. For 120 points I can replace the whole thing with a stocked purpose built shelter and a door that can be closed again after it's opened._

"Leave the old shelter there and put the new one down the slope a bit. Don't bury it, I can do that later. Woman, are you coming or staying in the shelter?"

"Since you obviously don't care about the gardens-"

"Fine, when you run out of shots hide in here." I waved in the direction I wanted it and Autumn did her thing. I expected the dull shine of galvanised steel, but it looked like a cross between a fancy garden shed and what city people think a cottage looks like, oiled cedar and brass hinges. "What is _that?_"

> _A shelter suitable for a lady, you unwashed lumberjacket wearer. You have 17 points remaining._

"Thank you, Autumn. At least one of you thinks about others."

I spun. "You can hear her!?" It dawned on me that Autumn's voice was coming out of the caravan sound system. "Have you two been talking?"

"Of course we have. Both of us knew _you_ wouldn't share important information."

Walking down the slope I stared at the new shelter. "Fuck me, no wonder it was expensive. Right, stay here and don't die." I turned and stumped off. 

"Autumn, did you really just say 'arc reactor'? Have you been in my movie collection?"

> _Yes, it's not visible from the internetwork, I only found it after I broke the encryption on your wifi. I must say, the depth of your disdain for copyright is breathtaking._

---
If you're nothing without this suit, then you shouldn't have it.
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&mdash; Tony Stark

---

An idea came to me. "Since you've _clearly_ been watching Ironman, I don't suppose any of your space magic catalogues have a solution to the reaction mass problem? I've always wanted one of those suits."

> _Oh, yes! but you'll have to trim your facial hair if we're going with the whole Ironman aesthetic._

"Lay it on me."

> _55 points for the suit-_

"Sold!"

> _You don't have enough points just now. It's bigger than you imagine, and the thrusters are a problem. The reaction mass problem, as you say._

"When I buy stuff it just appears, right?"

> _As you say._

"So you can teleport things. There's no 'receiver' at this end so obviously it can be done without one. A mechanism like that could totally solve the reaction mass problem. The other end could be a fixed installation so-"

> _Chief, I hate to rain on your parade, especially when you're kind of right, but man-portable self-powered equipment capable direct of manipulation of space is a type of technology reserved to Class III catalogues. And you want six units capable of continuous operation. You'd need three tokens and thousands of points._

"Because... let me guess: the first thing people do with space manipulation is weaponise black holes."

> _No, the first thing normal species do with black holes is have a nasty accident. Normally it's a week after the accident that someone thinks of weaponising black holes. Unless, it would appear, humans are involved._

"It's one of the Great Filters, isn't it."

> _Great Filters? Ah, yes. What an odd species you are to have such thoughts, depressingly nihilistic and optimistic at the same time. It does make you good candidates for the Vanguard, I suppose._

"What if we gave up on looking cool and turned it into a pauldron mounted drone with simple rotors? The pivot is high so I'd be stable. In fact, it might be better if the pivot were just far enough above my centre of mass so I'd hang forward about thirty degrees off vertical, so I can see the ground well but looking up isn't too hard. You can put the mechanism at the centre of gravity then and you could even make it detachable from the armour so it doesn't mess with ground movement."

> _This design is a common Class I geometry for personal aircraft. Combining it with hardpoints on light armour is far from novel. This is far from the worst idea you've had today. Are you sure you want me to remove the airframe mounted&mdash;_

"HAMMERSPACE!"

> _Do you have ADHD?_

"I could if it would get me Hammerspace."

> _What exactly is- oh, I see. Chief, that's more than space manipulation, it's stable dimensional folding with a dynamic frame of reference attached to a physical anchor. That's how spatial locking works, but you want to move the anchor freely. You can probably have it if I dig through enough catalogues, but I am absolutely sure you won't have enough tokens. Back to the possible: do you want it to have gun-mounts and if so how big?_

"A one-man helicopter gunship. Why not! I presume the question of recoil has been considered."

> _If you think you're getting inertia-compensated gun-mounts, for the last time space magic is Class&ndash; Oh. You're talking about a gas cushioned slide with a high mass and a spring return. Yes, that's an option, but you'll get better accuracy with a rocket rounds._

"Won't those be more expensive?"

> _I prefer a weapon you only have to fire ... once!_

Unable to avoid rolling my eyes I dropped down behind a falling tree. Sure enough, the movement I thought I saw was a group of dogweeds stuffing the remains of a smaller sow into a huge centipede thing. "Fine. How much is an RPG?"

> _Single shot, discardable, unguided - three points. Or you can have an M41 SPNKr reloadable two shot launcher and three two round clips of M19 102mm surface-to-surface missile for ten points._

"A spanker, huh? Can you do the SPNKr EM with the big clip and the laser guide? Either way, sold."

A familiar hardcase appeared against the fallen timber. It was the EM! Four shots, point and shoot. Leaning into the whole thing I vaulted the tree and ran directly at the problem. Halfway they saw me and I saw the dot on the big one. Aiming low for skip and splash damage: FOOM FOOM FOOM FOOM! "Reload!" my hand was out ready but they were heavy. Oof! Clack flip snick CLUNCH FOOM FOOM! Two in the tube and mulch still raining. My heart was pounding when I realised we had music. "Seriously?" I laughed, still breathing hard. "Battle music?"

> _You respond to it without thinking. It's faster than words._

"Hah. I suppose I do." Recovering soon enough, "Have we got enough points for the personal hoverdrone thing?"

> _No. Let's keep moving, maybe check on your other neighbours._

"Janna? Might be a bit late, those were her sows." We walk in silence for thirty minutes, finally up her drive. What a mess. There's nothing left of the nursery, not a single plant. Her tiny cabin was framed with struc pine, and they've even eaten that. Which figures, termites like it too. 

All that remains is fibro sheets, roofing and gutters, piles of twisted metal. Vines trail out of the irrigation tanks, making it clear what must be done. "Fragmentation grenade." Hand out. Plop! "Blast radius?" 

> _About six metres. Be at least ten metres away, given your current lack of armour._

Pulled the pin and lobbed, spoon flying dramatically aside with a satisfying spang. My target was the top of the tank but I completely overshot. WHAM! Gruesome beasties boiled out of the tank. "Another!" Pulled the pin with my teeth (because _war movies!_) this time low and slow like an unsporting cricketer. "Another!" Yanked the pin. Spang! Lob. WHAM! WHAM!

"Chainsword!"

> _75 points?_

"Chainsword, now!" It had a big red button and a satisfying roar. Remnants of the small, fast ones tried to swarm me but the chaps were thick and tough and the chainsword was just plain fun.

"Backpack chopper thing?"

> _You need another 300 points or so. Keep shooting._

"With chainguns and rocket launchers!"

> _I've created a monster. Right, now you need some flesh-melters for here, and then we should go back and clean up. In the meantime, you can afford a recon drone now. Remember when you said you didn't have a helmet? You're about to buy one. I know you don't do implant augs, but there's no reason we can't project on the inside of a visor._

"Wrap-around, light-armour, polarised, half-silvered, flip-face with a rebreather in case we run into that one with the trippy gas and the spikes. In-helmet audio, an external speaker so you can talk to other people, and _please_ tell me you can do a compass across the top of the visor and waypoints!"

> _Twenty-seven points. Here you go._

A Mk IV Mjolnir helmet appeared. I glared in the direction Autumn was giving her voice. 

> _You were very detailed about function and said nothing at all about styling._

"Autumn." 

> _No refunds._

"_Autumn._ It's very cool but I want something that won't look completely ridiculous over a lumberjacket. Another twenty-seven points if you must." 

> _Since when do you care about image?_

"You're right. Maybe I should order a clown outfit? No, motley would be classier. Perhaps a pinstripe suit and a bowler hat?"

A full-face PPE visor with shroud appeared. The outside must have been some kind of illusion, because when I put it on no light leaked in save through the lens. It felt more like a motorcycle helmet than anything else, but lighter.

> _Thirty-eight points for protection without the appearance of protection. It has all your toys. And I can do this!_

My field of view zoomed quickly and smoothly in till I clearly saw an ant carrying a football sized aphid up the underside of a broad expanse of grass leaf. A callout box surrounded the giant ant in case I hadn't noticed it. Then the world zoomed out, the cone of my vision narrowing as distant flecks bloomed into vivid focus. She must have been doing some kind of steadicam thing, smooth as silk, level, no jittering. The reticle was still there, even though the aphid wasn't even a speck in the panorama. And a compass across the top! I concealed my excitement with deflection, trying not to be obviously stoked.

I brought up my machete and pretended it was a rifle, sighting along its spine. The callout reticle dimmed and a smaller targetting reticle appeared, jittering savagely. Steadicam on its own would not be enough for my sniper fantasies.

"Can you do thermal? Sonar? How about electric and magnetic fields?"

> _Stop it with the gushing gratitude, you're making me blush._

"Yeah, alright. It's very nice. Thank you ... Bluetooth?"

> _What do you think?_

"Good. Call Trix and give her an update. We're going to Oleksiy's. Can you put a waypoint up?"

> _You need a waypoint to find your neighbour's house?_

"I need a waypoint to nerd out."

I got a waypoint. It was a little diamond on the compass across the top of my HUD, with the range in metres. Autumn is the _best_.
