# Farewell

Unspeaking, she thudded down from the Galya, the bundle in her arms undersized and wrong shaped. Too slow, she was, lack of haste a grim and silent tale. Like some slow-motion avatar of fury, she laid what remained on the table Oleksiy used as his armoury workbench. Without a word she turned to the old Slav and let tears explain.

He took two steps forward and put his arms around her while she almost crushed him in hers, remembering at last her amplified strength and backing off.

"Why?"

His eyes looked into hers, gentler than she remembered. 

"You know why."

"You cannot im&mdash;" she interrupted herself, revised, "Maybe you can. _They_ cannot imagine how _angry_ I am."

Eric was there, and Shorty. They all were. In her haste, she'd left them all behind. He opened the bag. The remnants of a lumberjacket, sodden with half-dried blood, torn and tangled with the half eaten remnant of a man. What remained was scorched, cooked almost. He guessed she'd come too late, and unleashed the wrath of god to get them off what was left, to reclaim _something._

She walked over, untangling him from the jacket, separating man from myth. Half the face hung in tatters, an eye missing. A trembling half smile emerged. She'd brought him home.

> _I can make things less gruesome for Trixie, if you like. You have more than enough points._

"Him, yes. Less missing, if possible. Repair the worst of the jacket, but don't clean it. And don't fix the eye." If Autumn didn't understand why, she wasn't going to explain.

---

Late the next day two women stood by a tower stacked of cut timber. Atop it lay a bier, underneath neat little teepees of kindling laid with the casual competence of people who cooked on woodfires. A small fire blazed in a brazier, beside it two sticks wound at one end with cloth, wired in place, soaking in motor oil. They were on the level pad outside Forest's workshop, surrounded by his half-finished projects. Behind them, facing the setting sun, the ground teams in full kit ranged like a living amphitheatre of destruction.

As one, the girls took up torches, holding them over the brazier. They blazed bright and hot, droplets of flame falling as the women walked together and lit the pyre.

In silence they stood witness to the passing of a friend.

Purifying flame roared into the sky, smoky at first but then too hot for that. Perhaps an hour passed, but it might have been moments. Darkness fell, and so fell the heavens, into the woods about them, for it was October and the fireflies in their thousands joined the sparks of the pyre.

They retreated to his longhouse, which crowded though it was, seemed empty. The lads from team charlie took fireblankets off coals and built them up, fanning to flame, unwrapping the lamb already spitted and half cooked. They broke out drinks and a quiet toast was raised, unvoiced.

A lad gave voice to it: "I can't believe he's not here."

Oleksiy began to laugh, bitter at first but growing in strength. He caught the young one by his lumberjack, hoisting him into the air.

"Not here?"

He carried the lad to a stool by the fire and seated him, picking up a knife and a platter, carving off the first cooked meat, steaming and charred. Oleksiy clonked the platter beside the boy and poured a mug of mead, putting it in the boy's hand.

"I can see him clearly."

"Not funny."

"No, not funny. True. Look at you. You honour him with every step."

Then a strange thing happened. The lad's friends started to treat him like he was Forest: "Tell us about your dog!"

And he did. They all knew the story, told so many times. He spoke from the heart, like the first teller of the tale, and they listened. When he was done, another lumberjacket-clad youth rose and spoke of cane harvesters and corporate folly. By turns they remembered a man's life in his own voice. When they paused, others remembered in their own words, and through their own eyes.

In a corner two women grieved in different ways. They were drinking a robust red wine that neither of them liked.

"This stuff is bloody awful," said Trixie. "I never understood why he kept bringing it home." 

"It's not my thing," agreed Sophia. Her palate was perhaps more sophisticated but it wasn't the time to be patronising. And it really wasn't her thing. It was a wine only a wine maker could love, like one of those musical pieces that got musicians excited but left everyone else cold.

"He loved it."

"Yep."

"What should I do with the bow?"

"Archery trophy. Remains yours, possession to the champ. They won't actually use it, it was set up for him. Half of them aren't strong enough to draw it."

Trixie wondered whether he'd fully honoured her objection to augmentations, but that time was past so she let it go.

"But you can. Maybe you should give demonstrations." She changed the subject. "What will you do now?"

> _You haven't told her yet, have you._

"Told me what?" asked Trixie.

> _Did you know anyone who liked to walk the path less travelled?_

She snorted amusement.

"Alright, what did he do?"

> _Asked me to take on Sophia as a Vanguard in her own right. It's not something that's ever happened before, but there's no actual rule against it, I checked. So... meet our newest old hand._

Trixie laughed, grimly. 

"He's dead and he's _still_ trying to change the world."

Autumn's presence drone had finally arrived and she had a face now, but her knowing smile hid his secrets like a Swiss bank vault. Vanguard AIs were famously tight-lipped when it came to Vanguard privacy and this was no exception.

> _It actually made a lot of sense. Most Vanguard have no training or experience. When they become Vanguard they're normally in more shit than Biggles on Sunday. Sophia by contrast has years of experience and Class II armour out of the gate._
>
> _Oh, while I think of it, Sophia, I have to remind you we're back to zero on catalogues. Not my rule, and not negotiable. We'll have to plan your choices and work on that. But you still have everything he provided for the ground teams. And the Galya, of course._

Spread about the gently sloping sward on which the longhouse opened, Janna held state with her brood. No-one knew why she saw fit to bring pigs to a funeral, but they were well-behaved, holding court with their princess Lisbeth, currently crowned with yellow ducklings and escorted by a mighty drake and two ducks. Other children played among the animals, quiet but lifting the spirits of the adults as life went on.

One of them approached the fire. 

"Are you hungry, little one?" Oleksiy's deadly Santa twinkled. 

"No, thank you. I just wanted to know, where's Forest?"

For a frozen heartbeat the old monster was on the back foot. Then his smile returned and he gestured wide and dramatic: "He is gone, and now he is _everywhere!_"

At the same moment, Sophia answered. Thumping her breast she barked "Here!" as though trying to convince herself. After that she felt slightly self-conscious, wondering why she'd responded with such vehemence to a child. Trixie put an understanding arm around her. They abandoned Forest's red wine for a late harvest wine. Strangely it was also Forest's. With enough alcohol to strip paint, it was thick and golden, lambent on the tongue, sweet and fruity.

Trixie raised her flute and Sophia matched her, saying "You're not getting away that easily, you old bastard. I'll see you in hell!"

They refilled and sipped, more than once. Somehow the bottle was empty and they retired. 

---

When the sun finally rose, it burned away the mountain mist and welcomed them to a brand new day. Sophia groaned and activated her nanites, which was the best kind of cheating. It certainly made his memory golden. She heard his voice and chuffed: "You _could_ just have a glass of water. But hey, why not."

They stumbled out into the centre of the longhouse, blessing whatever saints had already cleared away the festivities. Eric was there, nursing a water and a hair of the dog. He looked a little the worse for wear, but hadn't let that stop him from setting up the boiler espresso he and Forest had built from an old pressure cooker and a group head assembly. 

Everything she knew about coffee, which was quite a lot, said that it should run too hot and produce bitter coffee with no crema, but the boys had so much faith in their own ability they'd collapsed the quantum wave into the only universe Forest cared about, the one in which this ridiculous contraption produced sublime coffee on demand over an open fire. The damn thing had a steamer. A good one.

He put a steaming mug in her hands, then gave another to Trixie, who surprised both of them by shedding a tear, though she said nothing. It wasn't the coffee. The wrong person gave it to her.

She sighed. "Did Janna tell you I asked her for beetroots?"

"No?" Sophie looked askance at the out of context question, waiting.

"Apparently all that sugar Europe was dumping came from beets. You know, the cane harvester thing."

"OK?"

"So sugar for coffee. It's less work than cane and it will grow up here in the hills. And you harvest it with a knife, he'd love that, full circle."

"I see." She wondered would she ever be as good at thinking about the needs of her people. The boots were too big. But he'd given them to her. To _her._

> _You'll do fine. And before you ask how I know what you're feeling, you're full of nanites that tell me everything from hormone levels to pituitary action, because on their own they can't make holistic health assessments. I process it and instruct them, and as a bonus I have a pretty good read on your mood._

Sophia grinned. "He did tell me you were a manipulative little minx."

> _That's ridiculous. I'm not little._
>
> _You'll do fine. Quit second guessing yourself and just be, O child of dog._

She sank into herself, mind still, enjoying the coffee and the warmth of the rekindled flame. Far beneath the surface, fury unquenched glowed hot. Not banked coals waiting to be raked and fed, tractable and civilised. Magma, wild, ungovernable, ready to cleave the earth and blacken the skies, unflinching of the cost.
