# And yet she wept

They strolled up to the entrance looking much like a couple with their child. One of the two very ceremonial looking, but nonetheless armed, guards stepped forward to address them.

"Parliament is in closed session today, I'm afraid. There is no public access. Something to do with the terrorists, I expect."

Sophia smiled at him. 

"We realise you _are_ just doing a thankless job, and you've been polite to us, so we'll make this as pleasant as it can be." 

This was not what he expected. While she spoke, the man put the little girl behind him, where she seemed to be doing something with her outfit. She stepped back into view and the air about her shimmered. Something was odd about the man. He was too still, with none of the constant adjustments of posture that people make.

"Terrorist is such an ugly word, but I suppose I _am_ here to frighten them. We'll be going inside to address parliament. You can try to stop us if you really feel you must, but I'd prefer not to hurt you. Apart from anything else, it's terrible PR. There's cameras everywhere, so you'll have to do something I suppose. Try to shoot me, and then I'll take your weapon and let you go."

He gaped at her, and his partner actually got a shot off. Bruce caught it, tossed it in the air and punted it back at him where it struck his vest with a dull thump.

Her hand flashed out with inhuman speed, plucking the sidearm from its holster and tossing it behind her, the other seizing the barrel of his slung rifle. The pistol hand lashed forward, striking the weapon where the body ended, bending the barrel.

"Off you go. Summon re-inforcements, but not too fast. We don't want too many casualties."

Bruce continued to say nothing, striding forward to the entrance. Alarms triggered, and heavy bolts secured the door top and bottom. He ignored them and punched the door at even intervals until he found the framework, and ripped the panelling off. Swapping a hand for a cutting disc, he made space for Sophia to step through, then systematically demolished the remainder while she was inside.

---

"I suppose you're all wondering why I've called you here today." Her voice resonated through the chamber, rich with harmonics, warm and clear but not loud. Almost in your ear. The sort of sound political campaigners dream of. She undid her hair and ..._bees_ flew out, three of them. The man who thought he saw it shook his head. They spread out like cameramen and hovered.

Confusion, tense scattered laughter.

"What do the Roman Empire, you, and every other empire ever have in common?"

"Is this a joke?"

"In a sense, yes, a very bad one. But today it's a Socratic question."

"People? Cities?"

"Right but not central. Keep trying."

Autumn's presence drone flickered to life, but this time it was Forest's face and voice, large as life. You could almost smell oil and woodchips.

> _They centralised, and then they fell._
>
> _Centralisation is the crystal meth of societies. At first it's great, they're stronger, smarter, faster, more stamina._
>
> _And then they can't perform without it. The doses get bigger and bigger. Sicker and sicker, an ugly twisted mockery of what might have been. Brutal, untrustworthy and desperate._
>
> _And then a whole people dies._

"What do you want?"

"I want you to do what you promise: honour the social contract. You don't represent, you rule. But that's inevitable, you're as trapped in the endless cycle as the people you oppress."

"Who the fuck _are_ you?"

"Me? Once I was your pawn. But in a forest, I was queened." Her tone darkened. "Now, I am the end of the long night. Daybreak, if you like."

Her gaze swept the galleries. "I know what you did, _Archie_." She sighed heavily.

"But the rest of you are just venal. I also know you can't help yourselves, but a warning is what he would have done." She gathered, drawing herself up, accusing gaze sweeping their eyes.

"We are not your thralls. What you are doing is slavery with lipstick. If people choose to submit, that is their prerogative, but if you try to force we who are free, defence will be pre-emptive."

She interrupted herself to glare at them.

"If you are worthy of the privilege you claim, you will tell them the truth. No more secrets. No more lies."

The Speaker of the House rose from his seat, drawing himself up to his full height, a good head taller than Sophia. With quiet dignity, shushing the PM with a hand, he spoke.

"For all our flaws, we are the duly elected representatives of the people. By what right does a terrorist castigate us, for all her might and unearned privilege?"

She regarded him, tapping her finger. It was curiously loud in the held-breath around them.

"An interesting trap, Speaker, I salute your intellect and your courage. If I say nothing you've made your point, and if I justify my position I let you frame the debate, set the terms. But I think you are sincere, if misguided, so I will answer anyway."

She turned and rose slowly into the air, eyes panning the galleries on both sides of the House, fixing them with her gaze. In response to her need Autumn produced a little dais. She settled onto it, eyes boring into the Speaker's.

"We are not terrorists. We have done nothing but rule ourselves. Why would you find that terrifying?"

The Speaker did not respond, could not think of a response that wouldn't diminish their authority. The Prime Minister was less cautious, full of belief in the rightness of his rule.

"This is a _single nation_. The constitution does not _allow_ for secession. Tasmania tried it. By the book, referendum with a three quarter majority. Sent the papers off to Britain, and back they came, rejected by the House of Lords. Because the constitution says _indissoluble_."

She smiled, and sniffed. "The constitution. First of all, the people who wrote it may have been bound by their word but their word is not mine. Why should I, or anyone else, be subject to the choices and beliefs of the long dead, merely because they wrote them down? And secondly, the constitution says the union _of states_ is indissoluble. It says nothing of other entities. Individuals can leave the country, and take their possessions with them. There is _vast_ precedent for this. And that is what we have done."

"There is no precedent for taking land with you!"

"Exceptions to property one can take are explicit. More than ten thousand dollars worth of gold, for example. Land is not so excluded."

"It will be by lunch-time tomorrow!"

"We've already taken it. Retrospective law is a disgrace to which even North Korea is not inclined."

She swept them with her gaze again. "We're in a room full of people who spend all day thinking about power. Who can tell me, what is the essence of sovereignty?"

They might have been greedy or self-serving or vain, but most of them knew what a trap smelt like. No one spoke.

"Come on," she smiled, cajoling, "we're on air. The people are _listening_, and you _adore_ being on TV. Explain it for them." Her head cocked to one side: "Your taxes at work!"

With a crash the inner doors flung open and armoured police charged through, but they couldn't use arms with the galleries for a backstop. Sophia's hands blurred as she flung little grenades that burst into sticky, immobilising foam, binding and hampering them until they fell over one another like Keystone Cops.

A bee flew down and closer. She looked directly into its camera.

"Sovereignty, yes. Well, we can't leave our audience hanging like that, even the commercial networks would have run out of ads by now. I'll help you: underneath all the bullshit, sovereignty is about _ability to enforce_. You characters are salty because we rounded up your bully boys and sent them home in their underpants. Not because we did it, but because if you can't enforce then you aren't sovereign, and your claim to power falls apart."

One of them, a true believer, could restrain himself no longer and was on his feet.

"They are police officers! They go into personal peril so that private people don't have to live in fear and run around with _weapons!_" he spat the word like it burnt his tongue. "And you humiliated them, treated them like common criminals!"

Sophia responded evenly. "That's one point of view, certainly. Another is that thirty-four armed men tried to stage a home invasion and it didn't work out for them. They were violating our laws and we put a stop to it."

"You cannot make law! You have to be _elected_ to make law! I have an electorate behind me. Who do _you_ represent?"

"No, that's not true. It's _obviously_ not true, since we enforced our one and only law. Didn't we just _have_ this discussion? And the _other_ thing a sovereign power must do is defend its borders."

"Do not say 'rule of law' because we _have_ rule of law. Our own law, for the people by the people: 'Rule none, and suffer none to rule.' It _is_ written, since that seems important to you. Taught by every adult and written in every schoolbook. We're not trying to impose it on you. We owe you nothing and we want nothing from you. All you have to do is mind your own business. Any conflict between us is created by _your_ attempts at coercion."

He sputtered, cognitive dissonance making him sway slightly. "You are not _legitimate!_"

She laughed, a floating, sparkling sound that lit the room.

"Legitimate just means someone wrote it down. Putting it on paper doesn't make it real. Only ability to enforce can do that. Besides, we did write it down. _Our_ law is short and simple and every schoolchild understands it in full. We don't need lawyers, or politicians, to tell us what we think."

She paused, remembering her message. As though to herself, "Oh yes, the warning. Before that, I have a little something for all you viewers to think about. The constitution he was quoting says a lot of things. What it does _not_ say is that members of parliament, once elected, have any obligation to do the will of the people. If it did, parties would be illegal. These are _not_ your representatives. They never have been."

"Now, the warning: you who love to centralise so that you may control... consider how vulnerable this makes you."

"For example..." Sophia raised a hand theatrically. Outside there was a terrific _CRUMP_ and the lights went out. Her departing footfalls were impossibly clear and confident in the padded dark. They heard the _spang_ of grenade spoons and dull thunks as she tossed them around the restrained tactical squad. 

"Gentlemen, those ones won't harm you, they'll dissolve the foam in about thirty seconds. Let me assure you that the indignity of my countermeasures was not broadcast. You'll find your gear by the door. Since it's grossly unfair for you for you to suffer the folly of these clowns, I've left a little apology by your gear, I'm sure you'll find them handy for biker gangs and whatnot. There's also solvent that will get the last of the foam off your vests. The solvent is corrosive, so get your weapons to the armoury and give them a full teardown." Her voice came from everywhere and nowhere, the sound system bending to her will even in the darkness.

It was an hour before power returned. The lights did not. They shuffled out by the glow of cellphones. The water was off, too. Only to a small area, they discovered, which was itself a lesson in mercy; it would have been much easier to wreck the system.

They were still petulantly demanding answers when a streak of plasma sundered the heavens, deafened a city, shattered many windows and left a two metre deep crater across the road outside the army stores at Wollstone. Apart from their ears, no-one was harmed, as though whoever did it knew exactly when the road was clear. Leaflets fluttered from a conspicuously empty sky.

James Cleary, MP, stopped grumbling and picked one up. It was stiff, fine paper, an odd, small size as though torn from a very expensive notebook. Unfolding it he found elegant copperplate handwriting, with a wax signet seal. He adjusted his glasses and squinted: around an ornate H were the words _rule none and suffer none to rule_. There was a short, brutal message in an incongruously elegant copperplate hand. 

> Last warning. Stop or be stopped. &mdash; _SH_

---

She sat on the edge of the roof, looking down on the city. The little girl sat quietly, waiting for her to speak. She didn't at first, only weeping silent tears that fell into the abyss. 

Her frame heaved, wracked with a sigh laden with inevitable consequence.

The girl broke the silence.

"The death of shadows? Really?"

She didn't answer directly, staring instead into the darkness. "They can't help themselves. Look at this!" she waved an arm, "They think it is their triumph. It is their prison, and _because_ they can't control themselves I will have no option but to make it their tomb."

"You look like Batman," observed the girl.

Sophia blinked at this non sequitur, wiping her tears. After a moment the words reached her brain.

"I do _not!_ ... If anything I look like Black Widow."

She rallied, focussing. 

"You heard that? Weren't you outside with Bruce?"

"It's all over the net. You _broadcast_ it. Wasn't that the point of all this grandstanding? To call them out in front of the people? I thought it was a bit odd to do it dressed up like a gothic power fantasy, but Bruce said it was probably a human thing."

The girl pulled a face and pulled a slip of paper out. She lowered her voice to a rough gravel: "Last warning. Stop or be stopped." Her normal voice returned. "I can't even _read_ it without hearing Kevin Conroy. Doesn't really suit 'Daybreak', Miss 'End of the Long Night' &mdash; all that black armour. You need to lighten up."

Sophia processed this. Introspection went on for a while. "Autumn, when I finally have the points and catalogues to replace this armour, maybe we can go with something more cheerful?"

Lulu quit fiddling with her phone and held it up. "Like this." 

It was from the movie. Natasha Romanov in _white_ armour.

> _Sure, why not._
>
> _Watch Hervor closely; the threads of fate wind close about this one, and they do not bind._

"Hervor?"

Autumn turned, looking archly at Lulu.

> _He left a gift for you, a Vanguard name. Hervor was a small woman who defied fate. She confronted her dead father and demanded her cursed weapon from him; she had in her the courage and the strength to break empires._

"He hardly knew me." 

> _He watches all who walk between worlds._

It was so absurd they could only laugh. When the moment ended, Sophia looked around.

"Where _is_ Bruce?"

Hervor shrugged. "He said he had something to do."

"Sophie?"

"Mmm?"

"If you call me Hervor in front of anyone I'm going to call you Dögun for the rest of your life."
