# No Help

"Haaaaaang on, help is one the way!"<br>
&mdash; Air Supply

---

The people of the valley may have walked away from life in the system but they kept an untrusting eye on it at all times. When they felt like it, satellite uplinks gave them news and streaming media of every stripe. So when Glen Innes copped an incursion they knew about it straightaway. 

For most of them this went in one ear and out the other. It wasn't actionable. It was distant. And it was just some antis. Antithesis were _always_ around. Sometimes they got out, so you made sure you were armed, and if anything happened you called Eric, who sent a ground team, or Forest or Oleksiy.

This blas&eacute; attitude failed to consider that for others, the threat fell from the sky instead of coming from a predictable direction. It also didn't consider that most places didn't have a response team, or researchers who carried Class I weapons as part of their day job, or a resident Vanguard dispensing miracle medicine. Certainly not for a population in the low hundreds. To some extent this mindset was a natural extension of the culture that created Forest. Australia was always infamous for its danger-close nature; spiders, snakes, sharks, crocs, and a cute little octopus with a deadly bite. Even some of the plants try to kill you. Mortal peril was omnipresent. You learnt to deal with it &mdash; as a child.

Sophia was just about the last person in the valley to find out about Glen Innes. It was Eric who brought it to her attention in a summary of national antithesis activity. He was rocked back on his heels by the strength of her reaction.

Her parents, it seemed, lived there. This was not the problem. The _problem_ was that Glen Innes was five and a half hours away from forces capable of suppressing an incursion and wasn't economically significant. She knew exactly what the official position would be, what they would say, think and do. By the time anything was done about it her parents would be compost. This would be quite deliberate. It's much simpler when there are no survivors, you drop a whopping big thermobaric bomb and when the fire goes out you dig out and kill anything that's left.

She pulled the Bat-Phone, as Eric liked to call it, from a drawer. It wasn't actually a phone, it was a UHF radio. She pressed the call button. _Bee-dunk!_ 

Twenty seconds later Trixie's voice came through. "Handset seven..." paper rustled, and there was scrabbling, like looking for something in a draw. "_Sophia?_ What's up? He's down at the low dam. Do you need him?"

"Yes." It was almost a whisper, full of need and worry.

"Where are you?"

"My office."

"Stay there. He won't be long."

---

Down at the low dam, Forest and Oleksiy were wrestling a pump off a pontoon. Squelching out of sucking clay with fifty kilograms of rusty steel between them, they staggered onto the dam wall and set it down. Uncoupling inlet and outlet, they heaved it into the loader bucket of a small tractor with a clang. 

Trixie was on the balcony of the southeast cabin waving a radio. "There's a call for you."

He looked at Oleksiy. "Duty calls."

"No problem. I use the logging road, put in my shed. Maybe start tomorrow. See you later."

He stumped down the hill, took the radio, thanked Trixie and pushed Transmit. "Forest."

"I need help. Where's your helicopter? Is it ready to fly?"

"Where are you?

"My office."

"It's in Oleksiy's yard. He's been servicing it. He likes to be ready."

Her voice was quiet, unhappy. "Good."

"Get down to Oleksiy's with whatever you want to bring. I'll meet you there."

---

She pulled in a little too fast, bursting out of the car and grabbing a duffel bag from the back seat. The cockpit of the Gally was open and Forest leaned comfortably on the ladder. He stood and took the bag from her hand, gesturing up the ladder.

"Get comfortable while Autumn and I do the pre-flights."

The presence drone floated along beside him, Autumn prompting each check and Forest performing it and calling out the result. By the time he hoisted and stowed the ladder she was strapped in and wearing a helmet for the integrated headset. Styled after the original Russian gear, they were Class I tech with formidable noise rejection and very comfy. She adjusted the strap and put on her harness, settling back while switches thunked and those beautiful big turbines thundered to life.

Clear of the trees, Forest flicked the intercom on. "This is your captain speaking. The skies are clear and sunny. We're still gaining altitude, and today's in-flight entertainment will be explanations. Starting with a destination. Toward the end of the flight our cabin crew may hand out weapons, of which we have a splendid selection of high quality options. Over to you."

"Glen Innes. Hurry!"

"Rightio, give me a tick. Autumn, that's a one-horse town on the Newell Highway, can you give me the coordinates?"

> _It's on the New England Highway, not the Newell. I'll take care of it, Forest. Go up to two thousand metres and engage the autopilot. Then talk to the lady, she's clearly upset. Sophia, our flight time will be about one hour. We'll be doing about 150 knots in a straight line_

In the air she poured her heart out to them, that her parents were there and how she _knew_ the government wouldn't help them. Her composure broke and there were tears. He nodded and let her talk. When she finally fell silent he reached back and put a hand on her knee. 

"We're on our way. Autumn, what intel do we have on ground conditions?"

> _Six hours since the breach. These country towns aren't fortified but if the people are anything like **you** the antis are probably in shock._

"Hilarious. So they've been munching on the shrubbery for six hours and by now they've probably found the fertiliser section of a produce store."
