# Cruiser

Forest lifted the roller doors at both ends of the workshop so engine fumes wouldn't accumulate. His 2007 Toyota Landcruiser was on the scissor lift, currently lowered with the engine running.

"Why don't you replace this thing with something less stinky? If you electrolysed water you could burn hydrogen and there'd be no smell at all."

After staring for a while, Forest said "That's a _great_ question, but the answer is full of physics, chemistry and engineering. Are you ready for that?"

Autumn's presence drone spun up on the workshop bench where it was charging. This time, Hepburn wore a tweed jacket with leather elbow patches and spectacles she pushed up her virtual nose. There was an out-of-focus blackboard behind her, covered in scrawled math and chemistry notation.

> _Watching leaves fall isn't the only thing I do, Lumberjacket. He probably knows more phys-chem than you._

"Righto then," he launched. "Has Professor Purple covered the concept of energy density?"

Silence. A shaken head.

"OK, at standard temperature and pressure, a litre of water weighs one kilogramme, right? But it's fully oxidised. The atomic weight of hydrogen is one, oxygen sixteen, so for H2O we have eighteen. A thousand grammes of water over eighteen is, um..."

> _55.56 moles_

"Thanks, Autumn. So, hydrogen. At 2g per mole we have 111.1g or 0.111kgm(H2) then we apply Boyle's law and work out how big that is. Autumn?"

> _About fourteen cubic metres for your 0.111kg of hydrogen._

"That's uncompressed. Surely you'd put it in a gas bottle."

"Right," said Forest, "How big's the bottle, Autumn? Assume steel, give size and weight."

> _You'd need an 8 litre bottle than can handle 230 atmospheres. Around 14kg with fittings, and full of hydrogen._ 

"And the energy from burning that?"

> _About sixteen megajoules. Four and a half kilowatt-hours._

"How about the energy from the same mass of diesel?"

> _About four and a half megajoules, 1.5kWh._

And the volume for the diesel, at the same temp and pressure?

> _Point one litres. In an unpressurised tank._

"How much energy from an eight litre tank for the diesel, and what weight?"

> _About 12kg, releasing 45MJ._

"How big is the tank in this ute?" the question was addressed to the lad.

"Sixty litres?"

"Good guess, but this one is a long range tank, so about a hundred litres. That's what, three gigajoules?"

> _Three point five, yes._

"And for the same volume of compressed hydrogen?"

> _About 230MJ. Forest's point is that diesel has about fifteen times the energy per litre, and the tank doesn't have to be gas-tight at crazy pressures so it's easy to make, far cheaper and quite a bit lighter._

The lad already had light dawning in his eyes but Forest wasn't done.

"Now, what do you know about hydrogen molecules?"

"They're common? And small and light."

"Hydrogen is common. Hydrogen _gas_ isn't, it floats away. Small is the one. Only one electron shell, obviously. Hydrogen leaks _through_ steel, especially at that kind of pressure."

Gears clashed. Metaphorical smoke came out the boy's ears. After a few moments it was black smoke, slightly oily.

"Don't look so disappointed. Hydrogen's a great fuel, it's just a bugger to handle. But there _are_ solutions."

"There are?"

"You get plants to stick it to carbon atoms &mdash; hydrocarbons." He held up a fuel can. "Plants are basically self-constructing fabbers that capture the energy from sunlight and store it as sugars and fats."

The kid wandered off, to do whatever kids did when they didn't have chores.

> _Why does that work?_

"Why does what work?" He dropped the end of a timing chain, which slithered sinuously into the inaccessible depths of the sump, adding at least two hours and an oil change to the job. The air above turned blue with imprecation.

> _You gave a pompous lecture on physics, chemistry and engineering and then analysed plants as nanofabbers without anyone dying of boredom._

He shrugged and began undoing the sump bolts.

"_I_ think it's interesting. And you give too much credit. _You_ did all the heavy lifting. The math, Avocado's number and all that."

There was a long silence, ended by more cursing as the sump gasket tore.

> _Why do you keep this stone age behemoth?_

"I can repair it."

> _You could repair a more modern one that uses less fuel, doesn't belch black smoke, with lighter steering and even suspension._

"This has suspension. Leaf springs. And it only belches black smoke while the rings expand."

> _It doesn't even have a turbocharger, which is why it is, and I quote, 'gutless and sluggish'._

"A hundred and thirty horsepower for 2.2 tonnes, of course it's gutless and sluggish."

> _Have we switched sides in this argument? You're making my case!_

"Normal aspiration is why these things are famously unbreakable. And they're common as dogshit, parts everywhere."

> _You never buy parts, you always get them from me._

"That's not the point. I _could_ get parts."

> _You almost never replace anything! You totally ignore the service manual where it expressly tells you to replace the part with a new one. You just measure it, declare it fit for service and put it back in._

"The people who wrote the service manual want to sell me parts. I do not want to buy parts, and sadly for them, I am quite capable of measuring things for wear. Waste not want not."

> _What about the appalling fuel consumption?_

"Don't do a lot of miles. Doesn't matter, so long as she gets me there." 

He looked up at Autumn over her presence drone. She had her hands on her hips. 

"There's no electronic bullshit in here. It's exactly as complex as it needs to be, and no more. It doesn't _need_ a computer to work. It runs cool without a turbo, and there are no turbo seals to blow. Keep the filters clean and the oil takes care of itself. Keep the oil clean and the engine takes care of itself. Six hundred thou is common for these motors, and then you rebuild them and do it again. And oh my god it's funny when the cops send a pull over signal to this car and nothing happens."

> _The low speed chase? You could have stopped and told them you were a Vanguard instead of letting them chase you halfway to Tenterfield._
