# Learning to be good neighbours


"We have to _do_ something!"

"Why?" the non-descript man in a bland grey suit seemed genuinely puzzled by this outburst.

"They're terrorists!"

"No they aren't. They're belligerents."

"They're what?"

"How long have you been in&mdash; never mind, why would a politician know anything about political theory."

"Damn right, we know about political _reality_."

In an admirable display of self-control, Grey ignored the idiotic clich&eacute; and answered the unasked question. "Terrorists are isolated, insurgents are organised, belligerents are recognised players."

"Then they're insurgents."

"They _were_ insurgents. Then they won. You want political reality? Sovereignty is about having a good answer to 'You and whose army?' and we don't even have a launch capability. _They_ have RFGs!"

"They have what-what-what?"

"RFGs. Rod From God. The formal name is _High Velocity Inert Projectile._ You know how dropping a brick from an overpass causes a lot of damage, right, well an RFG is ten kilograms of tungsten steel dropped from orbit."

"Is that good, as missiles go?"

"It's like a small nuke without the radiation."

"Can't we shoot them down or something? We pay all this money for defence, surely you have anti-missile missiles or something like that."

"It's not a missile, it's an RFG. The fastest missiles do about mach seven. RFGs move about mach _ten_."

"Wouldn't it burst into flames at that sort of speed? The Space Shuttle had bits falling off everywhere."

A voice from the gallery interjected. "The fastest missiles do about mach 27, as I recall."

"That's a _Russian_ missile, experimental. _Our_ best is mach seven." He turned back to the Premier. "Well spotted, you are in fact correct about bursting into flames. By the time it reaches the ground it's no longer a ten kilogramme steel bar, it's an eight kilogramme bolt of plasma. It's runny, so shooting it doesn't work. Then it hits the target at mach ten and there is something of a boom."

"What do they _want_, then?"

"Appeasement already?" Mr Grey looked amused. "In fact we did ask. And they gave an answer."

"So _what_ do they _want_ from us?"

"In fact we had _two_ responses, very differently worded, but semantically equivalent. He said, and I quote," he consulted his notes, "_Nothing at all. All you have to do is fuck off and mind your own business. Can you do that?_ She, on the other hand, said _I would like you to honour your social contract, as we will honour ours: autonomously &mdash; a state of affairs that will be defended vigorously._"

"That sounded like a threat!"

"All of government is threats. Obey these rules or we will punish you. The difference between a government and the mafia is sovereignty, which merely means rule over all. Sovereignty comes down to ability to enforce, and I rather think they have demonstrated that. He asked  'Can you do that?' and I'm rather hoping you can, because if you don't they might take action. Changing sides never looks good on one's resume, but I am nothing if not a survivor. If that will be all, senators, I'll be out of the office but available on my phone."

"They toppled a duly elected government. We cannot let that stand."

Mr Grey turned to address them one last time: "What are you going to do, arrest them? That's been tried." He left, pulling out his phone again and calling his wife. 

"Darling, remember how you really wanted to live in the country, but I said we couldn't afford it? Great things are afoot. Do you still want to visit that permaculture chappie with the big farm? Life is uncertain and one never gets younger. I think we should just _go._"

On the way home, his office called. It seemed there were further messages. The polite woman seemed to think a rescue mission was in order, and was offering safe conduct for strictly humanitarian aid, provided that it was all about evacuation. Reconstruction, it seemed, would not be tolerated. He wondered what to make of this and eventually concluded it was both a deflection of responsibility and a ploy to spread them thin. It was what he would have done.

For a few minutes he contemplated telling them to destroy all record of it, but the rebels &mdash; the new power, he corrected himself &mdash; would simply send direct messages and then he'd have to front another senate hearing. Sighing, he instructed them to inform the new Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Premier's office. At least that way the ensuing shambles would be _their_ fault. The countryside looked better and better.

Thirty minutes later, he sat in his own driveway listening to a political analysis of the new power. It was sophisticated, perceptive and completely wrong. The tragedy was that it was also completely unnecessary, because they were happy to explain _themselves,_ and quite transparent. Not in the sense of transparent government, which only existed in pre-election campaign rhetoric, but in the sense that they only had one law and they wrote it everywhere: RULE NONE AND SUFFER NONE TO RULE. Anarchy, but that word was forever tainted with images of violent punks with spikes of purple hair. People heard it and thought of Mad Max.

These people claimed to have true anarchy, where people shared and helped each other because they liked and needed each other. From each according to his means, to each according to his need. That was what Marx had wanted, but he didn't understand people and politics and the Russians made a travesty of his legacy, building exactly the opposite, because they were centralists, very big on rules, especially for other people.

Not compelled, and compulsion not tolerated. It wouldn't work for a city. They apparently knew that, and therefore objected to cities. He wondered how they thought they were going to preserve their technology base. Then it occurred to him that the _previous_ incumbents imported everything anyway, so it couldn't get worse and it might get better.

He stopped the recording and went inside, greeting his wife with more passion than she'd experienced in a decade. She knew him well, if distantly at times, and their go-bags were laid out on the table in the dining room. He smiled, and decided to allay her fears.

"It's not _quite_ that imminent. But I'm glad you were listening. I will go back to the office, tomorrow, and take my formal leave, for stress, I think. And we will visit your farm on our vacation. But we'll be taking the lockbox."

"It's in my bag," she said, simply. He knew why he'd married her.

In his study he read a transcript of the dead man's notes. Pompous. Self-impressed. Possibly right. He knew why they'd felt a need to be rid of him but couldn't quite believe they'd been so stupid as to respond to the goading. In hindsight it was obvious the man had _wanted_ them to kill him. Grey saw the chessboard in his mind, corner of his mouth twitching up in admiration. He wondered whether he'd have the same commitment himself and briefly envied a the combination of such a pure purpose and the courage to perform a queen sacrifice if it were _him_ on the board. But then, the fellow had no choice. Or he did: submit or die. Still courageous.

He thought about the stuffed shirts in the senate and decided with a smile that the anarchists were fortunate in the leaders they pretended not to have. Would they have any use for him? Maybe he should _read_ the permaculture books Lucy kept giving him. He took one down from his bookshelf and blew the dust off it. A guilt-edged card fell out: "Happy 50th". On the reverse, pencilled script: "Took you long enough! :D"

Elsewhere a tired widow mothered a nation than wasn't a nation one last time, in a way that no-one would ever understand. On the wall of a latterday longhouse she hung an ancient pair of twin-tips, crossed over two pairs of ski-boots, brittle with age. Beneath them, years were carved into the timber, 1996 to 2014. It wasn't a lifetime, it wasn't a marriage. It was the years of a shared passion. He'd pushed her until she could outrun him, and was delighted when she did. Coach, bully and personal pack mule all at once, he was impossible. She missed him.

It was a certainty that one day a little boy or girl would ask the old lady sitting under them what they were.
