# MYOB

"We have to _do_ something!"

"Why?" the non-descript man in a bland grey suit seemed genuinely puzzled by this outburst.

"They're terrorists!"

"No they aren't. They're belligerents."

"They're what?"

"Fuck me, how long have you been in&mdash; never mind, why would a politician know anything about political theory."

"Damn right, we know about political reality."

Sighing. "Terrorists are isolated, insurgents are organised, belligerents are recognised players."

"Then they're insurgents."

"They _were_ insurgents. Then they won. You want political reality? Sovereignty is about having a good answer to 'You and whose army?' and we don't even have a launch capability. They have RFGs!"

"They have what-what-what?"

"RFGs. Rod From God. You know how dropping a brick from an overpass causes a lot of damage, right, well an RFG is ten kilograms of tungsten steel dropped from orbit."

"Is that good?"

"It's like a high precision half-kiloton nuke without the radiation."

"Can't we shoot them down or something? We pay all this money for defence, surely you have anti-missile missiles or something like that."

"It's not a missile, it's an RFG. Missiles do about mach 7. RFGs move about ten times that speed."

"That's absurd, it would burst into flames."

"Well spotted, you are in fact correct. By the time it reaches the ground it's no longer a ten kilogramme steel bar, it's an eight kilogramme bolt of plasma. It's runny so shooting it doesn't work. Then it hits the target at mach 70 and there is something of a boom."

"What do they want, then?"

"Appeasement already?" Mr Grey looked amused. "In fact we did ask and they gave an answer."

"So what do they want from us?"

"In fact we had _two_ responses, very differently worded, but semantically equivalent. He said, and I quote," he consulted his notes, "'Nothing at all. All you have to do is fuck off and mind your own business. Can you do that?' She, on the other hand, said "I would like you to honour your social contract, as we will honour ours: autonomously &mdash; a state of affairs that will be defended vigorously.'"

"That sounded like a threat!"

"That entirely depends on your answer to his 'Can you do that?' question. I'm rather hoping you can, because if you can't they might take action and changing sides never looks good on one's resume. If that will be all, senators, I'll be out of the office but available on my phone."

"They toppled a duly elected government. We cannot let that stand."

Mr Grey turned to address them one last time: "History is written by the victors, and I'm not sure they share your perspective." He left, pulling out his phone again and calling his wife. 

"Darling, remember how you really wanted to live in the country, but I said we couldn't afford it? Great things are afoot. Do you still want to visit that permaculture chappie with the big farm? Life is uncertain and one never gets younger. I think we should just _go._"

