# The Stuff of Dreams

She looked away, busy with the doings of mortals scrabbling to be more. When attention returned they were wrassling on the ground, Forest on his back with the dog on his chest, wrapped in his arms, legs flailing yet with no sign of distress, twisting free, mock biting the man who just laughed as they tumbled over one another. He took off his shirt, which inexplicably became a grey quilt that flung over his kneeling, all-fours form, tucked under. The dog burrowed, trying to find him inside it, and succeeded, but with a joyous shout the trap sprung, "Gotcha!" and the whole bundle rolled and tumbled before opening like a flower. The man sat, and the dog ran in and licked his face, settling beside, touching.

Autumn wondered whether this was the silliest, or the most important thing she'd ever committed resources to.

They returned through the park, crossing the fenceline from Gasworks Flat into the wooded area known as Little cum Ingham Park. Reaching the other end, the man was a boy, with a lead in his hand. No, two leads. On one of them was a tiny, dainty german shepherd. 

"Misty. Aren't you dead?"

Of course she is, said the brown dog. We all are.

Misty didn't speak. She didn't need to, she was his beautiful girl. She just looked into his eyes and put the idea there directly. The boy had the odd sense she thought both of them thought too much about words when they should have been living. Bonzer knew that, and didn't care. He did both, and was himself in the way that mountains are hilly.

He ran off to the long grass on the riverbank. There were fences there, ugly galvanised things refusing to let people near the shore, where those who could afford yachts wanted the public park for themselves. The brown dog thought that was absurd, and the fence wasn't there anymore. He darted into the long grass on the verge, which was there forty years ago, before the fence, and pulled something out, rolling on it before running joyfully back to them.

He presented his back to Misty, who recoiled, turning her snout away from the reek. The boy heard her clearly: Ugh! Boys are so gross!

He took the clasp in his fingers and she sat, waiting for him to attach it to her collar. The brown dog sat after being asked twice, but she had to nip his ear. Silly boy, how can we cross the road without leads? It's impossible! They stopped at the kerb while cars went past, and a big truck. Strange, until then the boy hadn't heard a single sound but the wind. Then it was clear, and they crossed together. The boy dropped the leads, knowing they were waiting for him to open the gate. He lifted the latch and it groaned open. Both dogs ran in, sitting on the concrete under the lead hooks, waiting for the final step in the sacred ritual of PARK.

The boy sat in the sun on the bottom of the stairs, and the brown dog, who somehow no longer reeked, sat beside, leaning on his leg.

They were home.

Autumn watched the experiential model glitch temporally and after some inspection realised the _dog_ had remade his world. She followed them, watching in 1:1 experiential frame, outside the model. She zoomed in on the dog, looking at the extraordinary detail of memory, marvelling at how important these memories must have been to Forest. 

It was uncanny, the dog seemed to be looking at her, which was absurd. Then he surged to his feet and licked her in the face. Not slobber, a neat lick on the cheek. And now the boy was looking at her.

"Hello," he said. "I'm Pete. You're very pretty but I don't think I know you. What are you doing in my mum's yard?"

Autumn found herself crying. The brown dog reared up, his paws landing so soft against her she hardly felt them, and licked her tears away. Then she was outside the model again and the boy was in a hammock, the other dog sleeping beneath and beside. Of the brown dog there was no sign, just a feeling that he was in the shadows, immense speed and strength in a glove not of velvet but a sleek smooth pelt like a land-borne otter, rippling muscle coiled in relaxed vigilance.

It was not lost on her how much Sophia and Bonzer were alike.

Impossibly, the boy was looking at her, speaking. His words were muffled by the gulf between worlds, and then she was in the simulation again.

"-aid she was going for six weeks."

"What?" said Autumn, disoriented by the unexpected change of referent.

"Mum was going to Japan for six weeks. But it seems longer. I can't remember when she left."

He looked at the empty hammock. Misty lounged underneath. His eyes hunted around the flat, empty yard. Bonzer was nowhere to be seen.

_He's dead._ Misty put the thought directly in his head. _You were busy with your new life at university. He took to jumping the fence and taking walks on his own. You didn't care, he didn't care. You were right, crossing the road without the lead is impossible. A cattle truck hit him and he burst. You buried him where he liked to sleep, in the shade of the soursop tree._

He looked at the soursop tree, which was there, but it wasn't. The little garden shed was rusty, which wasn't right.

He lay there, LED on a digital clock glowing in the dark. Somewhere outside, a ball of malevolence drifted nearer, gleeful in its enigmatic malice. Sensing threat, he looked out the window to see a blur of red-gold fortitude launch into the air and wrench the wrongness sideways out of the world. The world adjusted. The LED jerked sideways a metre and the time changed. He stumbled against the bed and lay down, falling into a sound sleep.

It was late afternoon on the last day of the first week of 1993. Barely recovered from a life threatening dose of chickenpox at the ripe old age of twenty-four, he finished packing and closed the back of his Mazda 626. Melbourne was a long way, anything that didn't go now wasn't going. It was hot and he was still weak from the illness, so he lay in the hammock for a while, one arm dangling to stroke Misty's loyal ears. Then it was time, and on his knees he put both arms around her. 

Misty's eyes weren't accusing. She never judged his actions, always believed in him, trusting. That trust wasn't given to many. Him. His mother. Bonzer. She'd taken to barking at the things Bonzer once barked at, to scent-marking and patrolling the boundaries. He rose and opened the gate to the future, and never saw her again.

The boy couldn't think of anyone else. She liked the neighbour's kids. They were small. The older one was busy exploring their world while the toddler sat in the shade of custard-apple trees singing 'poopy-woopy' because it was a forbidden word. Weren't they all grown up now? Dissonance made him let go of the unimportant question, remembering instead...

A claw rap/scratch on the sliding door, the hugely gravid bitch waddling to the centre of the loungeroom and flumping down. She was bleeding! The was a puppy in the blood. "Mum!" There were _three_ puppies. Four. The dog looked at him in helpless frustration. "Gather the pups," his mother said. "She came to us, she wants help."

 There were more puppies, crawling radially from the birthing bitch. Gently they scooped each sightless pup, returning them to the grey quilt his mother put down to keep some of the blood off the carpet.

The neighbour's kids came to see the puppies. Misty, who played with them every day, was a snarling terror the moment they set foot in the hallway, a surprise to Pete and his mum since she seemed to _expect_ them to handle escaping mini-Bonzers.
